Forks
=====

Here is how I decided to live with my father in Washington.

My favorite three questions are, *What do I want?, What do I have?,* and
*How can I best use the latter to get the former?*

Actually, I'm also fond of *What kind of person am I?,* but that one
isn't often directly relevant to decision making on a day-to-day basis.

What did I want? I wanted my mother, Renée, to be happy. She was the
most important person to me, bar none. I also wanted her *around*, but
when I honestly evaluated my priorities, it was more important that she
be happy. If, implausibly, I had to choose between Renée being happy on
Mars, and Renée being miserable living with me as she always had -- I
wouldn't be thrilled about it. At all. But I'd send her to Mars.

Mars wasn't in the picture, but my new stepfather Phil's travel schedule
was. I'm a minor child; one isn't permitted to leave those unattended
for too long. And so when he went from city to city, Renée stayed home,
with me.

She was not happy.

Renée loves me, but she loves Phil too, or she wouldn't have married
him. (I wouldn't call her the world's most self-aware person, but
marriage is something she takes very seriously, since her divorce from
my father. She was careful this time around.)

What did I have?

Lots of things -- but the relevant one was: another parent.

And so, to let Renée follow Phil and be happy, I moved to the town of
Forks, Washington -- to stay, where I'd previously only spent summers.

* * * * *

It's a significant flight from Phoenix to Forks. A significant two
flights and a drive, actually. I stocked my carry-on luggage with books
to read and spiral notebooks to fill. I made a habit of carrying
notebooks, and pens, everywhere. If I pinned my thoughts onto paper,
they couldn't escape later. Without that kind of enforcement, they were
liable to morph into versions of themselves that were more idealized,
more consistent -- and not what they were originally, and therefore
false. Or they'd be forgotten altogether, which was even worse (those
thoughts were *mine*, and I *wanted* them).

I wrote a lot, whenever anything remotely unusual or challenging
happened. Once a week or so, I typed it all up, so I'd have a searchable
archive. Originally I'd had to write down everything I could come up
with in order to be more or less sure that I wasn't fooling myself more
than was strictly necessary; after a few years of practice, I mostly
trusted myself to remember my actual thoughts and not the fictionalized
ones my brain preferred to provide. By the time I moved to Forks, the
notebooks were more of a comfort object, which I mostly used for things
I might need to refer to that were too important to leave to memory.

My father, Charlie, met my second plane in Port Angeles, hugged me with
one arm, and helped me get my suitcases into his police cruiser. Once
I'd buckled my seatbelt, in accordance with the law it would have been
too ironic not to obey in a cop car, Charlie began the drive to his
house -- my house, too, I supposed. He told me he'd found a good car for
me, a cheap one.

I *had* wanted a car. Not just to have a car -- I didn't care about cars
very much as objects -- but to have autonomous mobility around town, and
to avoid dependence on Charlie for rides, as he a) had other things to
do with his time and b) drove a conspicuous vehicle. That he'd found me
one for myself was a sign of attentiveness, trust, and spontaneous
generosity: he knew what I wanted, thought I'd be responsible enough to
have it, and offered it to me without any social obligation to do so
whatever. I felt a rush of gratitude, and immediately thanked him
warmly. He looked a little embarrassed; I relieved the awkwardness by
asking after the details of the car and providing a concrete topic.

He'd already bought the car, which was actually a Chevy truck, for me as
a homecoming gift -- that was good if the car was adequate because it'd
save me the money, but bad if it wasn't, because its gifthood made it
harder to replace. I wanted to like the car. It was from his friend
Billy Black, who'd become disabled recently and couldn't drive it any
more. That reduced the odds that it was a lemon if he had a reason like
that to get rid of it, which was important because I knew nothing about
fiddling with the innards of engines. Although Charlie did admit to me,
after a little prodding, that it was an *old* truck. *Very* old.

Charlie's a quiet sort. After our car talk was over, we observed that
the weather was damp, then ceased to speak; I observed, silently, that
the damp weather characteristic of the area did lead to some very nice,
verdant scenery. I liked that, although the moist prerequisites weren't
as pleasant. I decided that it would be useful to develop a taste for
wet weather, and pulled out my notebook du jour to note that if I saw a
way to do that, I should.

We arrived at his house. The truck was a solid red thing that I found
strangely appealing. I wrote down that I should think about that -- I
wouldn't have guessed from a description of it that I'd have liked it,
and that meant there was something I didn't know about my aesthetics --
and then took it for a test drive around the block. It ran, loudly, but
the radio worked and could drown out the engine noises. When I pulled it
back into the driveway, Charlie had already hauled my bags inside and up
the stairs to my room. I told him I loved the car, and then he stayed
out of my way while I unpacked. As soon as I'd stashed the contents of
my toiletry kit in the house's single bathroom, my next priority was to
fire up my laptop and e-mail Renée, letting her know I'd made it safely
and coming up with a short list of remarks about the weather, Charlie's
good health, my new (old) truck, and my mixed feelings about the school
I'd attend the following day, starting in mid-January no less.

I didn't need to be very detailed in my note to Renée, but the upcoming
half-a-year of school was significant enough to warrant some heavy duty
scribbling. Out came the spiral notebook. I wrote without dwelling on
the words or trying to edit. If I decided that what came out of my brain
was too terrible to be recorded, I could set the page on fire -- *after*
I had seen what was on it for myself.

I was used to a huge school with the resources that were the privilege
of densely populated districts. I was used to being able to disappear in
a sea of people. I wasn't used to Fork's student population three
hundred and fifty-eight, counting me. I had to enter in the middle of
the year. Everyone else already knew each other -- moreover, everyone
else had known each other from earliest childhood. Forks was one of
those towns where a few people left and almost nobody ever turned up.
I'd been born here and I'd spent the odd summer month here, but Charlie
didn't live close to any families with kids my age, and I'd certainly
never attended school here before. I was only sort of native, and
wouldn't know any of my classmates.

Towns this small were also the natural habitat of gossip. If Charlie had
mentioned to any of his friends or fellow police officers that his
daughter was coming to stay for good, everybody in Forks who wasn't too
young to have acquired language yet was also party to the information. I
couldn't disappear: everyone would know who I was just by process of
elimination, even if my resemblance to my father wouldn't do it.

My novelty would probably get me some attention and interest, though. If
I were prepared for it, and acted friendly and excited to be there
instead of self-conscious and beleaguered, I could probably make some
friends on my first day and get their help navigating the school. I
decided to psych myself up to make the most of the opportunity on the
drive over to the school; friends in an unfamiliar place would be good.
Full stop.

* * * * *

It rained a lot in Forks. Around midnight, it quieted to a light patter
and I was able to fall asleep; by morning, it was just thick fog. I
pulled on some nice, but not uncharacteristic, clothes -- to make a good
impression on my classmates that wouldn't be undercut by my next outfit
-- and went downstairs for breakfast. There wasn't any reason for Charlie
to say anything while we ate our cereal, and so he didn't.

I reacquainted myself with the house. It had been months since I'd been
there, but almost nothing had changed. In fact, almost nothing had
changed since my mother had stormed out of the place, baby me in tow:
the cabinets in the kitchen were still the same sunny yellow she'd
painted them, for instance. I had never quite had the temerity to ask
Charlie if he just hated redecorating, or if he wasn't over Renée yet.
My suspicion was the latter. The pictures on the mantelpiece included a
wedding photo and the pair of them in the delivery room right after my
birth. The latter I could explain the same way as the procession of my
school photos in a neat chronological row, the former not so readily.

I wasn't sure I could get to the high school as quickly as the distance
suggested I should. There was fog *everywhere*, and I'd never driven in
Forks before, only in and around Phoenix, so I didn't have a good sense
of the road quality. I put on my raincoat over my knapsack as soon as
I'd finished my breakfast, and left early. I raced from the house's door
into the dry cab of my truck as fast as I could and roared down the
street.

The school didn't look very much like a school. It was a group of brick
buildings clustered together just off the highway, nestled in among
trees and shrubs and connected by stone paths. (I considered it a poor
design choice that the paths were not covered, and was glad of my coat.)
I parked in front of the first building I rolled up to, which was
conveniently labeled "Front Office". There weren't any other cars there,
even the staff I'd expect to show up early, so I was probably going to
have to move to some fog-obscured lot elsewhere on the campus, but
whoever staffed the office would be able to direct me to it.

The office was a riot of awful color -- green potted plants, repulsive
orange-and-gray carpet, a rainbow of papers and plaques on the walls,
and, behind the counter at one of three desks, a redheaded woman wearing
purple. I walked up to the counter, encouraged my face to smile, and
said, "Excuse me. I'm Isabella Swan. I -"

Her face lit up when I said my name, and she interrupted me. "Of course!
I have your schedule right here, and a map of the school." She pulled
them out of a tall, messy paper tower on her desk. It would have done
less than no good to let the third sentence I spoke to this woman be a
rebuke for the interruption, and even less good to fume about it
indefinitely without taking action to prevent its recurrence. I did
*not* like being interrupted as I tried to communicate, and my
relentless attacks on this button had done no good; it annoyed me, every
time. But I could make the annoyance *brief*, with a little work.

While the secretary marked all the routes I'd need to follow for my
schedule on the map in highlighter, I went through my mood-zapping
routine. Some people counted to ten, but that only made explicit the
natural diminishing intensity of emotions over time and forced the
waiting period. My way took a little longer, even after I'd pruned the
process from a notebook-eating timekiller to a streamlined mental
process. When I was done, though, I was not annoyed anymore.

The short version was just to review what I *knew* about my annoyance,
and confirm to myself *that I knew it*. I *knew* that the woman had not
caused it maliciously: she did not know me, did not know about this
trigger, had no reason at all to try to irritate me, and was even now
being supremely helpful. I *knew* that it did me no good to be annoyed:
the emotion was not *pleasant*, it did not make me more *effective* at
getting any of the things I wanted, and I did not *prefer* to be annoyed
when interrupted. (It wasn't that I had a general desire to never be
annoyed. I would have considered it appropriate if she'd shoved me for
no reason or if she'd taken a personal phone call instead of doing her
job when I walked in. But I had tried repeatedly in the past to
eliminate altogether my dislike of interruptions, and that I'd so
attempted was not *consistent* with wishing to be annoyed about this
unspecial interruption in particular.)

Long practice at excising just this sort of reaction made it come loose
more easily than some moods might have. But my annoyance was the
ascription of motive to the secretary, glued down with entitlement and
habit. If the motive were recognized to be nonexistent and the
entitlement dissolved and the habit *fought* as a thing in my brain that
I did not welcome, they ceased to trouble me.

The lady finished with her highlighter and gave back my map and
schedule. She expressed a hope that I would like it in Forks, and told
me the way to the correct parking lot; I thanked her sincerely and was
on my way.

* * * * *

My aged truck didn't stand out as it would have if I'd driven it to the
school in Phoenix. Except for one conspicuously shiny Volvo, the cars in
the parking lot (which had filled up a bit by the time I got there) were
old models. I parked, pocketed my keys, and found my location on the
map. From there I followed the path of the line of highlighter to
building three, and hopped out of the truck to join the swarm of
teenagers.

My first class was English. Everything on the reading list was something
I'd covered in school already. I'd probably be able to update old essays
and spend my reading time on something else. I had no chance before
class to introduce myself to anyone. Luckily, after the bell rang to end
the class, a dark-haired boy who'd sat next to me leaned over.

"You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" he asked. All the heads from our
region of the classroom swiveled around, which, given that I needed to
correct my appellation, was just as well.

"Yes," I said, "but I prefer 'Bella'. What's your name?"

"I'm Eric," he said, sounding quite friendly. "Where's your next class?"

I checked. "Building six. Government."

"I could show you the way. I'm headed for four, it's not far off," he
offered. I smiled at him with a nod, and we collected our jackets from
the hooks by the door. Eric set the pace along the crowded footpath and
asked, "So, this is a lot different than Phoenix, isn't it?"

"Very," I agreed. It was great that I knew someone's name now and that
he seemed helpful, but there wasn't going to be a lot of time for an
entire conversation about Phoenix v. Forks between buildings three and
six.

"It doesn't rain much there, does it?"

"Just three or four times a year," I said.

"Wow, what must that be like?" Eric mused.

I guessed that if he'd never left Forks, it *wouldn't* be obvious, a
little like how I only knew about snow via the televised winter
Olympics. "Dry, bright," I told him, "less greenery, more xeroscaping,
fewer raincoats, more sunglasses."

He looked like he might have been confused by the word "xeroscaping" --
we weren't exactly in a place famous for its rock gardens and cacti --
but said only, "You don't look very tan."

"Skin cancer isn't among my hobbies," I said with a half-smirk. That had
been off the cuff, but once I got out of the rain I planned to add it to
my list of ways to learn to like Forks's weather: reduced risk of awful
tumorous death. I didn't fancy dying at all, so crossing off likely
causes was a plus. If I somehow eliminated them all, I'd be immortal.
Eric smiled faintly, like he was pretending to get the joke, and
escorted me to the door of building six.

"Well," he said as I hauled the door open, "good luck. Maybe we'll have
some other classes together." He gave me a hopeful smile.

* * * * *

Government was followed by Trigonometry and Spanish. Trig was notable
for the teacher's request that I introduce myself to the whole class. I
ought to have expected something like that, but it caught me off guard
and I stammered my way through some very basic facts -- my name, my
preferred nickname, that I was from Phoenix, and that I was "going to
sit down now is that chair okay?". I sat, produced my notebook, and
wrote *cure fear of impromptu public speaking* under my to-hack list
right after *learn to like rain (cancer is bad!)*.

In Trig, I met a girl named Jessica Stanley. She was tiny, with
innumerable black curls and unstoppable chatter. She came with me to
Spanish, as she was in the same class, and then invited me to sit with
her and her friends at lunch. I went with her even as Eric spotted me
from across the cafeteria and waved. By this point I'd met enough people
to be running out of memory slots for new names, and I couldn't keep
track of who I was sitting with, pleasant and worth remembering though
they all seemed. I wanted to write down names and descriptions for them
all. I refrained: I'd been cured of that particular hypergraphic urge
when a classmate of mine in the eighth grade had looked over my
shoulder, been confused by my description of her as "wee", and thrown
the notebook into a lavatory puddle.

Everyone wanted to know how I liked Forks. I told them honestly that it
was good to get more time with my dad, that the rain took some getting
used to, and that everyone I had met was very helpful and polite. They
were pleased with this assessment, especially the part where the rain
comment gave them a hook into the world's most usual conversation topic.
While Jessica and several of the others at the table traded
half-remembered fragments of unreliable meteorological knowledge, I
looked around the room where I'd be taking my midday meals for the next
several months. That's when I saw them.

"They" were simultaneously completely unalike and obviously a group.
They all sat at one table, but no two looked similar at a glance. There
were three boys and two girls. One of the boys was the approximate size,
shape, and menace of a bear; he looked like he was planning to go to
college on a weightlifting scholarship, or like he'd done it a few years
ago and was only sitting in a high school cafeteria for kicks. His dark
curls contrasted with the bright honey mop on his neighbor, a lean,
muscular, and vaguely leonine boy. The last boy was wiry, and looked
younger than the other two, more like an actual high school student than
a professional athlete. His hair was untidily bronze in the light,
reddish-brown in less flattering shadow.

The two girls looked as opposite as could be while still both being
white, female, and able-bodied. The tall one could have been a statue of
Aphrodite with gold leaf caked onto her long, styled hair. She didn't
look college-bound so much as Hollywood-bound, or maybe Paris -- she'd do
well anywhere that being decorative was a job skill. The other girl was
littler and spindlier than Jessica. Her black hair was short, pointed
away from her head in all directions, and gave her a pixie look.

But apart from the variations in size and hair color, they were all
alike. They were paler than me, pale like marble, or ice -- all just the
same shade. And their faces were all the same. I had a momentary
impression that they'd been drawn by a cartoonist who only knew how to
sketch a single sort of face, but that wasn't right: they *would* be
recognizeable by face alone -- but it would be hard. Not because they had
anything that registered as family resemblance; they didn't. Rather,
because the easiest thing to think about when looking at any of those
five faces was something along the lines of *"Pretty!"*. It occluded the
individual character of the features (a sharp chin on the pixie, a few
faint scars on the lion). They were too stunning, to the point where it
took me a second look to notice that each had dark circles under their
eyes, as though they were all *very* tired.

The pixie got up and moved like a gymnast towards the trash can, where
she discarded an unopened soda and an equally unmolested apple. None of
the five were eating, now that it occurred to me to look.

The conversation among my table-mates about the weather lulled, and I
took the opportunity to ask, "Who are *they*?"

Jessica looked where I was looking, and then the youngest-looking boy
made eye contact with her for just a moment -- then, his black eyes
flicked over to me, and then they went back to staring at nothing in
particular. Jessica giggled, embarrassed, and told me, "That's Edward
and Emmett Cullen, and Rosalie and Jasper Hale. The one who left was
Alice Cullen; they all live together with Dr. Cullen and his wife."

The younger boy was disintegrating a bagel as she said this, picking it
to bits; I didn't see any of it making its way to his mouth. "Which ones
did you say were the Cullens?" I asked, tempted to make a remark about
the *pretty!* but restrained by the impression that it would be rude.
"They don't look related," I said instead.

"Oh, they're not," Jessica informed me. "Dr. Cullen is really young, in
his twenties or early thirties. They're all adopted. The Hales *are*
brother and sister, twins -- the blondes -- and they're foster children.
And they're all *together* -- Emmett and Rosalie, and Jasper and Alice, I
mean."

"Foster children? How old are they?"

"Jasper and Rosalie are both eighteen," said Jessica, "but they've been
with Mrs. Cullen since they were eight. She's their aunt or something
like that."

"That's nice of Dr. and Mrs. Cullen to take all of them in like that," I
observed.

"I guess so," said Jessica, but she sounded disapproving, like she
didn't care for the doctor or his wife. "I think that Mrs. Cullen can't
have any kids, though," she went on. I noted -- mentally only -- that
Jessica was not, until further evidence accumulated, the person to trust
with any personal information I might want to confide.

I kept stealing glances at the lovely family; it was hard not to, even
when all they did was stare at the walls, mutilate food without eating
it, and sit. "Have they always lived in Forks?" I asked, expecting the
answer to be yes simply because everyone in Forks had always lived in
Forks -- but *these* people, if I had noticed them, I would have
remembered, and it was such a *small* town...

"No," said Jessica, sounding like she expected the Cullens and Hales to
seem un-Forks-like even to a newcomer. "They just moved down two years
ago from somewhere in Alaska."

In a city, two years' residency didn't mean "newcomer" anymore, but in
Forks, it did -- so that meant I wasn't the only one. That was
comforting, in a way; I'd found the attention useful, but I had no
reason to expect anyone else new to move to Forks until I graduated from
high school, and it would be convenient not to have to bear *all* of the
scrutiny allotted to Forks's novelty. And it was unsettling, in another
way, because they were sitting with each other and no one else, and
Jessica seemed a fairly typical student and didn't care for the family.
That didn't bode well for my eventual integration, although I seemed to
have gotten a good reception so far. Perhaps it was the Cullens' and
Hales' own choice to set themselves apart and that was all I was seeing.

I looked back at their table one more time, and the younger boy looked
at me again. He was so beautiful it was *distracting*, but as far as I
could tell despite that, he looked... expectant? Frustrated, maybe?
Something he'd wanted or thought likely wasn't happening. "Which one," I
asked Jessica, pulling my eyes away from him and making polite eye
contact with her, "is the boy with the reddish brown hair?"

"That's Edward," she labeled him (and now I had identifications for all
five: Emmett the bear, Jasper the lion, Rosalie the Aphrodite, Alice the
pixie, and Edward, the one who expected something to happen with or to
or near me that wasn't). "He's gorgeous, of course," Jessica went on,
"but don't waste your time. He doesn't date. Apparently none of the
girls here are good-looking enough for him." She made a sniffing noise,
and I had a mental image of her flinging herself at him only to receive
some genteel but firm rejection.

The image was amusing on one level, but sad, and so I chewed on my lip
to avoid smiling. Then I looked at Edward again; my eyes just drifted
there naturally, as though he were a bright red object on a background
of gray or the only moving item in a still visual field. If I hadn't
been right in the middle of talking to Jessica, I would have pulled out
my notebook and written on my to-hack list, *Learn to quit staring at
pretty people.* He wasn't looking my way anymore, though. A few minutes
later the four of them remaining at the table since pixie-Alice's
departure got up and left. Even Emmett-the-bear was coordinated and
precise when he moved; watching the group walk together was eerie.

I risked lateness to my next class, Biology II, in order to linger with
Jessica and her friends, hear their names a few more times, and -- it
turned out -- get an escort to the correct building from Angela, who
kindly reminded me what she was called en route after discovering that I
was bound for the same class as she. The class was held in a room
dominated by two-person black-topped lab tables like those in science
rooms everywhere. Unluckily for me, Angela already had a lab partner.
There was one unassigned student in the room, though, towards whom the
teacher obligingly brought me. Sitting next to the empty chair that was
to be my home in Biology for the rest of the school year was Edward
Cullen.

* * * * *

I walked towards the empty chair. This was going to be *awkward* until I
cured my tendency to stare at him every fifteen seconds. I hoped that
the class would be on something new and unfamiliar that would be easy to
attend to.

As I approached, he looked at me. Not an expectant, puzzled look like in
the cafeteria. He looked *enraged*, and he looked it *at me*. I
automatically flinched away from the threatening gaze and promptly
tripped over a book in the aisle. Barely catching myself on my new lab
table, I regained my footing, and gingerly sat in my chair. I was scared
out of my *wits* -- enraged people were *dangerous*, might hurt me, I
didn't have even a *clue* what provoked him or how to stop doing it and
calm him down so he wouldn't snap and do me harm. There were eighteen
students in the class besides us, plus the teacher -- *surely* if Jessica
hadn't thought to mention any rumors of violent scandal, he was at least
controlled enough to avoid exploding in front of numerous witnesses.
Until I figured out what was wrong with him, I just needed to stick to
groups when he was around, that was all. I tried to control my trembling
as I resettled myself in my seat.

The class was on cellular anatomy. I'd covered it already, and the
teacher's presentation style wasn't enthralling enough to hold my
attention with a terrifying distraction just to my left.

Edward hadn't looked at me like that in the cafeteria, and no one else
was reacting to me the same way. I hadn't spoken a word to him -- could
he be offended that I hadn't introduced myself? Was there some cue to do
so that I'd missed? Did I smell weird? I tilted my head to bring a lock
of hair near my nose; it smelled like my shampoo, sort of fruity, quite
clean. Was he allergic to fake strawberry scent?

I peeked, hoping for more clues. He was holding himself absolutely rigid
-- if he was breathing, I couldn't tell -- and up close, without his older
brothers next to him, he didn't look so young and slight at all.

He glared at me again, his black eyes full of unadulterated hate. I
scooted my chair an inch away. If he could have disintegrated me into my
consitutent atoms with a stare he'd have done it. I made up my mind to
try to change classes -- or at *least* lab partners. I looked at the girl
who shared Angela's table and wondered if she'd take a bribe to accept
Edward Cullen as her new neighbor. Or were the partners assigned? Would
I need to convince the teacher? Should I offer to clean glassware -?

The bell rang and I almost jumped out of my skin. I wanted to run home
with a notebook and write the fear and confusion away and make the back
of my neck stop crawling. Edward got to his feet, facing away from me --
he was *tall* -- and was first out of the room.

I stayed put for a moment. I wanted to collect myself, and I wanted to
give him a good head start to whatever not-near-me place he was headed
for. I inhaled deeply, held my breath for a moment, and then let it out.
I tried to call up my mood zapping routine, but I didn't have enough
information to really believe that I *oughtn't* be afraid. There was
probably no genuine danger, but there *could* be, and part of my brain
wanted to keep the fear in case it was importantly motivating later in a
high-speed chase across campus. Spooked I would remain until, one way or
another, the hazard was moot.

"Aren't you Isabella Swan?" asked a boy's voice.

I looked up. The speaker was marvelously nonthreatening, at least as far
as I could tell (*swell,* I thought, *am I going to suspect*all*my
classmates are axe murderers now?*This*boy is no more or less likely to
attack me than he would have been if I'd met him in Government this
morning, and then I felt quite safe and I was right to feel that way, so
I*should*feel safe about him now.* My emotions grudgingly obeyed this
logic.) The speaker was a *marvelously nonthreatening*, cute, blond boy,
his hair coated in product and coaxed into rows of little spikes. He was
smiling at me, friendly, not infuriated or filled with loathing.

"Yes," I said for the tenth time that day, "but I prefer Bella." I
smiled back at him.

"I'm Mike," he said.

"Hi, Mike. It's nice to meet you."

"Do you need help finding your next class?" he asked eagerly.

"It's gym," I said, nodding and getting to my feet with a little help
from the lab table.

"That's my next class too!" He seemed thrilled about it, easily made
happy by the small coincidence. I tried to soak his glee up and cheer
myself. Mike talked all the way to the gym building, which was easy on
me. Apparently he'd lived in California until he was ten and considered
this a reason to commiserate with me about sunshine's local scarcity. He
had noticed me in English too, but hadn't had a chance to introduce
himself because Eric had beaten him to it.

My relaxed role of listening to Mike's pleasantries came to an abrupt
end as we entered gym class and he said, "So, did you stab Edward Cullen
with a pencil or what? I've never seen him act like that."

"I have absolutely no idea what might have happened to provoke him," I
said at once, trying to sound categorical but not like I'd been coached
by a lawyer. "I never spoke to him."

"He's a weird guy," Mike told me, hanging back instead of veering off to
the boys' locker room. "If I were lucky enough to sit by you, I would
have talked to you."

The sentiment about conversation was nice... the word "lucky" set off a
little alarm bell. It wouldn't do to be entangled in a more than
friendly way *immediately* after moving to Forks. I smiled at Mike and
walked into the girls' locker room. The gym teacher found me a uniform,
but didn't make me participate in the day's activity, which was
volleyball -- a good thing, as I bruised very easily and didn't want to
walk around all week with black and blue forearms. Or, almost as likely
with my brand of grace, veer into one of the posts holding up the net
and wind up sprawled on the floor bleeding.

* * * * *

After gym was over, I was done for the day. I made sure I'd gotten all
of my little paper slips signed by the relevant teachers, and then
headed for the front office to turn them in. It was cold outside, and I
rushed into the colorful little building. The door had shut behind me
before I realized that in addition to the secretary I'd met that
morning, the office also contained Edward Cullen. My luck was such that
he didn't notice, or ignored, my entrance; I moved near the wall,
waiting for him to finish his business and free up the receptionist.
They appeared to be arguing. A few sentences later, I realized he was
trying to get her to move him out of our biology class to some other
class, any other class. He had an oddly smooth voice -- I wondered if he
always talked like that or if he was just trying to convince the
secretary by turning up the charm. I wondered, crazily, if he sang.

Between the timing and Mike's evaluation of Edward's hostile behavior,
it seemed impossible that the attempt at transfer didn't have
*something* to do with me. But then -- what did I want? I wanted *never*
to be looked at that way again. Good riddance if he wanted another
class, good luck to him.

The door opened again, letting a waft of frigid air into the office. A
girl ducked inside, dropped a note into a wire basket on the counter,
and slipped out again. And as the door shut behind her, Edward turned
around slowly and *stared* at me with hateful eyes. "Never mind," he
said curtly to the receptionist. "I can see that it's impossible. Thank
you so much for your help." And then he disappeared out into the cold.

"How did your first day go, dear?" the receptionist asked kindly. She
hadn't seen Edward's expression and apparently couldn't tell I was
shaking in my boots.

I considered lying, considered telling the whole truth, and finally
said, "I met a lot of nice people."

I stalled in the office after I'd turned in my paperwork on the pretense
of re-lacing my boots. If Edward wanted so badly to avoid me I wasn't
going to give him any trouble. By the time I arrived at my truck, the
parking lot was almost deserted. I drove home, resentful and confused.

By the time I got done with it, my notebook was going to regret the day
its component trees had sprouted.

*Good Things*, read my notebook. *Eric, Jessica, Angela, Jessica's other
friends, and Mike are all friendly. Classwork looks easy (poss.
exception trig (work with Jessica? (is she any good at math?)), def.
exception gym (break a toe or something? look up attendance rules (cut
as many of the worst days as possible) check up on provisions for
alternate requirement fulfillment (is this one of those schools where
you can just write an essay on the history of soccer??))).*

*Things To Fix*, said the next section. *What is Edward's DEAL? See
Exceptions re: classwork above. Jessica poss. untrustworthy w/ personal
info. Mike*too*friendly too soon.*

I looked at the first Thing To Fix. I looked at it some more. I had no
idea. My brain generated hypotheses, but none of them were plausible
enough to be worth having thought of, let alone following up on. Edward
was *not* an experimental robot programmed to make scary faces at girls
from Phoenix when they got within ten feet of him. Edward was *not* a
rabid anarchist who thought police officers and their families all
deserved to die. Edward did *not* believe that he could stare holes
through my skull and thereby learn more about the brain and earn higher
marks in Biology.

That didn't tell me what his deal *was*, but I decided that I didn't
have a way to make progress on that question at the moment. And he
hadn't gotten out of the biology class, either. I drew a little arrow
towards "*What is Edward's DEAL?*", and at the other end of the arrow I
wrote "Discuss issue with bio teacher, request lab partner change." If
Edward had found every other science section full, I'd surely find the
same thing, but that didn't mean I had to sit *right* next to him. And
if "he looked at me scarily" wasn't moving to the teacher, I could say
instead that I was new, didn't know all the class procedures, and would
rather have a lab partner who was more willing to spend time bringing me
up to speed on things like lab report formatting. So I wouldn't have to
bother the teacher with too many questions, of course.

I moved on. *Talk to Jessica about trig,* I wrote. *Talk to gym coach
  ~~about how I probably have an inner ear problem and that's so a
medical excuse and make vague insinuations about lawsuits or
something if I crack my head open and BEG~~ "forget" my uniform
a lot, and find some non-sports chore the coach is responsible for and
offer to help with that to make up for it. Maybe cleaning gym equipment
or doing paperwork or something? Or come up with less risky
alternatives?*

*Don't write thoughts in notebooks around Jessica unless plausibly
taking class notes. Talk to her only about non-private things.*

And Mike... That was a stumper. There wasn't anything obviously the
matter with Mike; I couldn't very well tell him "you're not my type
because you're too cute and don't make me fear for my life". My reasons
for preferring to dissuade him were entirely about myself. I hadn't yet
begun to scratch the surface of what I wanted out of dating or romance
or anything in that department. And it seemed like a uniquely hazardous
thing to uninformedly test by experiment, both for myself and for anyone
else involved.

I hadn't had to address the problem of how to delay, though, because in
Phoenix I hadn't *had* anyone like Mike being puppyish in my direction.
Immediately after moving also seemed like a uniquely bad time to try to
pair off, when I was still getting acquainted with everything around me
and my judgment could be off. And I didn't know *why* Mike was
interested -- actually, I was only guessing that he was in the first
place, although it seemed like a good guess -- so I didn't have any known
personality trait that I could tone down for the purpose of making him
lose interest. He hadn't said anything explicitly, though, so I decided
it was safe to simply wait and see if any good strategies turned up.
*Wait and try not to be encouraging*, I wrote.

I did homework -- in other notebooks -- for most of the rest of the
afternoon. The disadvantage of starting at a new school in January was
that I didn't get to ramp up slowly. I managed to get to bed at a
reasonable hour anyway, but although it didn't rain that night, it was
windy, and I tossed and turned for some time before I managed to get to
sleep.

The Cullens
===========

On my second day of school, I spent most of the morning dreading lunch.
Mike sat with me in English and whisked me away to my second class
before Eric could step in -- Eric's disappointment was concerning -- but
to the general population I was less the center of attention. The
classes were no more or less interesting than they had been the previous
day, and that meant there was very little to distract me from the
hamster in my head running endlessly over and over *What is Edward's
DEAL?* At lunch, we'd be in the same room again, and he might... Okay, I
felt dumb panicking that he might *glare* at me, when I put it in words.
But he *might* and it was not *pleasant*.

Jessica and I walked together to the cafeteria, where Mike spotted us
and steered us towards his table (to Jessica's obvious delight -- that
was something to write down later). Jessica's other friends, including
Angela, found us there and collected around us. Once I'd settled in and
looked around, I found that Edward's four siblings were at their usual
table. Edward was not.

He didn't show up for the duration of the lunch period, and I
practically had a spring in my step by the time Angela, Mike and I
headed to Biology. I gave them my spiel about wanting a lab partner
willing to help, augmented by a "and now Edward is *absent!* What am I
supposed to do?" Mike took this opportunity to turn up the useful tidbit
that Edward, as well as the other Cullens and the Hales, actually missed
a fair amount of school -- on nice days the family were outdoorsy enough
to skip classes for hikes and camping trips. I got Angela's permission
(and Mike's unspoken disappointment) to try to swap lab partners and
work instead with her; she guessed that her current one wouldn't mind.

The switch went pretty easily. I didn't even have to recite my entire
speech to the biology teacher before he perfunctorily asked Angela's
partner if she'd be okay to sit with Edward, got an apathetic shrug, and
made the rearrangements. Sitting with Angela was pleasant. She was quiet
-- a bit like Charlie, speaking if there was cause but not fighting
silence like a hated foe. Once, she asked me a question about how the
material we were looking at compared to the similar content I'd covered
in Phoenix, and we had a murmured exchange that, being topical, went
unpunished by the teacher.

I hurried to gym, ironically, and found the coach and recited a litany
of excuses: I had the balance of a toddler -- a *drunk* toddler -- and the
bruising potential of an overripe nectarine and I promised to practice
yoga out of a book at home on a soft surface every day if I could
please, please, please be excused from volleyball and nearly everything
else.

Understandably, the coach wasn't impressed by my yoga promises, but said
I could take a mat and put it in the corner of the gym and do the
exercises there during classes where I could be officially monitored. I
would still most likely fall a lot, but onto something yielding and not
into any innocent bystanders. I could live with that. I was less happy
about the coach insinuating that maybe we should have official Yoga
Fridays and I could lead them if I was so into the practice. I wasn't
actually *good* at yoga. It was just not as likely to send me careening
into walls as volleyball. Perhaps she would forget about it; I didn't
see a way to discourage the plan at that exact moment without making my
promise to pursue the exercise seem less credible.

I had also "forgotten" my gym clothes, as emergency backup volleyball
avoidance, and so I sat out for the second day in a row, but with my
alternative arrangement in place I planned to be equipped the next day.
It would have been embarrassing to flunk gym.

* * * * *

After school, I needed to make a grocery run: when I was at Charlie's,
food was my domain, due to his lack of skill at or interest in cooking
and tendency to forget that he needed to eat. On my way out of the
campus lot, I noticed the two Cullens and Hale twins who'd attended
school that day getting into their car: it was the shiny Volvo. Of
course. It would be just silly if they had looks and not money too.

Grocery shopping wasn't a very mentally taxing activity, and so I spent
most of the trip actively trying not to dwell on Edward. There was no
good reason for me to be doing so, especially not after an entire day
where he had not even appeared. That meant I was dwelling on him for
*bad* reasons, and those weren't likely to go away and quit bugging me
until I ferretted out what they were. What bad reasons would be
prompting these thoughts?

Well, first, to get it out of the way, he was attractive. Very. Not in
how he acted -- just visually and in terms of what I'd heard of his
voice. That had to be tweaking something on a subconscious level; I
wouldn't necessarily have felt less threatened if an ugly boy had
scowled at me the same way, but I wouldn't have been so self-conscious
about it. I probably would have figured that it was his problem. Which
was a hint that it *was* his problem, and I shouldn't consider it
evidence that I'd done anything wrong. Edward was just a bizarre guy
who'd taken an arbitrary dislike to me where no one else had, and he'd
chosen to express it in the form of hostile staring. The fact that he
was pretty made this no more or less likely.

Second, it was unexplained. That made it nigglingly mysterious. It only
helped to care about mysteries if there was a sensible route towards
solving them available, though. Now that I thought about it, it might be
safe to ask one of his siblings...? None of *them* had looked at me at
all strangely. Of the four I guessed that Alice, the smaller, less
runway-model-looking girl, would be most approachable. I didn't have
information about any of their personalities, but appearance was to some
extent a personal choice, and so in the absence of better ways to tell
it wasn't worthless to guess based on how she looked. However, I decided
it would be better to put that possibility off until and unless Edward
pulled something worse than glaring at me.

Third, it felt risky. I had no strong reason to believe it was
*actually* risky. Driving my truck in the rain to and from the Thriftway
for eggs and bread was probably more likely to kill me than Edward, just
based on how many people died in car accidents and how many people were
slain by inexplicably provoked classmates on an annual basis. But an
angry face on another person was more the sort of thing I was wired to
fear than a lump of metal under my direct control. The brain was evolved
to work out social problems, not to worry about the relative danger of
controlling vehicles on wet pavement.

I'd run through all these thoughts by the time I wheeled my cart to the
checkout. They helped. Simply *observing* the thought processes that led
to some intrusive notion was so useful; I was confused about the fact
that others never seemed to do it. Renée's ability to worry was limited
only by her attention span. Charlie, if he had the tendency of dwelling
to begin with, was subtler about it. I didn't see signs of the ability
to consciously shut down pointless woolgathering in any of my peers. I
supposed I should actually ask some -- later, after I had closer friends
in Forks who wouldn't find the one comment enough to consider me weird,
instead of so early in their formations of impressions.

I went home, made egg salad so dinner would already be done whenever
Charlie got home, and replied to Renée's e-mail that had arrived while I
was at school. Then I occupied myself by writing down as many of the
things I'd decided to write down as I could remember. When I'd exhausted
them I got started on my math homework. I heard Charlie come home some
hours later, and went down the stairs so we could eat together.

"Bella?" he called when he heard my footsteps.

"Welcome home!" I replied, leaning into view at the bottom of the
stairwell. "Egg salad's in the fridge."

He served himself a generous helping, looking appreciative, and I
scooped out a small plateful for myself. When he went back for a second
portion, he asked, "So, how did you like school? Have you made any
friends?"

"Sure," I said. "I have a couple classes with a girl named Jessica, and
Angela's my lab partner in biology; I sit with them and some of their
friends at lunch. And I also met a boy named Eric and one named Mike --
they're friendly." I didn't mention Edward. There was nothing worth
involving Charlie in, and anyway, he was clearly hoping for positive
news, of which there was no shortage.

"That must be Mike Newton. Nice kid -- nice family. His dad owns the
sporting goods store just outside of town. He makes a good living off
all the backpackers who come through here."

I'd never asked Charlie much about the people of Forks, but now that I
thought of it, I supposed he must have met many of them. It would be
likely less fruitful, but also much cheaper, to ask *him* rather than
Alice -- obliquely, of course. "Do you know the Cullen family?" I
inquired.

"Dr. Cullen's family? Sure. Dr. Cullen's a great man."

"I meant more the kids -- they stick out some at school, I was curious."

Charlie surprised me with a medium-sized speech about how the Cullen
kids had surpassed all of his expectations since they'd moved into town,
never gave him a speck of trouble, were unfailingly polite, and all went
on regular camping trips as a healthy family bonding experience. He
seemed to be reacting more to some background hum of gossip, like what
I'd heard from Jessica, than to anything I'd said. Apparently he was
upset that the locals felt the need to make unkind comments about the
Cullens when Forks was so lucky to have such a fine doctor in residence.
I nodded along as he talked; the only one of the family I'd "met" had
not made such a splendid impression and I couldn't honestly chime in
with verbal agreement. But if my father the police chief found the
family so clean-cut and worthy of praise, that was some evidence in
favor of the danger being imaginary. Most violence came with priors. I
felt a bit better.

* * * * *

Edward was not in school for the rest of the week. I settled into the
routine of school: English with Mike and Eric sitting on either side of
me, competing for my attention during the moments before and after
class. Government, Trig, Spanish, lunch, biology, and yoga in the corner
of the gym. I discovered to my surprise that I *liked* yoga; it was easy
to think during the languid motions from pose to pose. I wasn't doing
anything complicated, mostly just stretches and so on -- and I avoided
standing postures so I would be less likely to topple over -- but the
teacher didn't complain, just looked my way periodically to make sure I
wasn't goofing off during class. The group I sat with at lunch, led by
Mike, made plans to take a trip to La Push Ocean Park in a few weeks --
an unfamiliar sort of beach, but a beach, and I decided to go.

By Friday I started to suspect that Edward had dropped out of school or
something. The mystery was compounded, not relieved, by his absence, and
the small town failed me with its lack of plausible gossip. This was
odd, given that asking Jessica could yield information of the most
personal sort about everyone else; I encountered more rumors about
drinking problems and scandalous pregnancies and business trajectories
than I could keep straight. Why shouldn't she be able to report on
Edward?

I *really* didn't think I was horrifying enough to cause *anyone* to
drop out of school altogether. I tentatively concluded that he'd looked
at me horribly simply because my timing was bad and I'd arrived the day
before some unwelcome event took him away from Forks.

The weekend was tranquil. Charlie worked most of it; he'd gotten into
the habit of spending every day on the job when the alternative was
puttering around an empty house, and typically took off only when there
was urgent fishing to do. I went to the library, found it pitiful, and
added a plaintive note about that in my new e-mail to Renée. Later I'd
have to go to some larger settlement, Olympia or Seattle, and spend all
day in a good bookstore, spending the money I would have blown on a car
if not for Charlie's gift -- on books, and on gas for the truck, because
it got awful mileage and I needed to budget separately for that expense
on a trip that big.

On Monday, it was cold. People in the parking lot greeted me by name; in
the cases where I knew theirs, I did the same, and otherwise I just
smiled and waved and offered a more generic hello. I was comfortable. It
was nice. The classes were mind-numbing, but I was pretty pleased with
the student body.

After English, it turned out to be snowing, and I stopped to marvel when
I walked out of the building, staring up at the descending wisps of
cottony precipitation. Mike thought this was amusing. "Haven't you ever
seen snow before?"

"On TV," I said. Mike laughed. Then a ball of slush hit him in the back
of the head. I tracked its path and noticed Eric hurrying away, in the
wrong direction for his next class. Mike bent down and started
collecting his own snowball.

"See you at lunch," I told him, moving away briskly. I thought snow was
pretty, but I suspected my affection for it would be destroyed if I had
to encounter it in the form of crossfire.

The snow -- first of its kind for the calendar year -- was the talk of the
school all morning, which would have made more sense if it had been
snowing in Phoenix. Nevertheless, I didn't find it hard to muster
enthusiasm, since it was genuinely novel to me. I managed to avoid the
hurtling snow missiles between all of the buildings I was obliged to
travel to; Jessica, walking with me to lunch, thought my caution was
silly, but didn't attack me with a frozen projectile herself. Mike
caught up with us near the cafeteria doors, laughing as melting ice
destroyed the painstaking spikes in his hair. Jessica drew him into a
discussion of snowball fight tactics as we headed for the food and I
habitually glanced at the Cullen's table.

There were five people there.

I must have been distracted for longer than it seemed to me, because
Jessica pulled on my arm. "Hello? Bella? What do you want?"

*For him to go be gone again,* I thought. *Or for an* explanation *at
least*. "Just a soda," I said aloud. "I'm not really hungry."

"Are you okay?" Jessica asked.

"I think so," I said. We waited in line, got our food and beverages, and
headed for our table.

Mike was very concerned about my health, and kept asking if I was sure I
was all right. I considered faking an illness and skipping Biology in
the nurse's office. Bad idea, I decided. I couldn't do that forever, and
it wouldn't get me any closer to understanding what was going on. I
would just stick close to Angela and ignore Edward as much as I could.
But I couldn't resist looking over once, to make sure he wasn't
glowering at me.

Edward wasn't looking at me at all, and he was laughing -- the entire
family was. The boys all had snow in their hair, and Emmett was shaking
his head to fling it out towards the sisters. Alice was using her lunch
tray as a shield. It was picturesque, and I looked a little more
intently, trying to figure out where the fury I so strongly associated
with Edward had gone. Without it he didn't look half so predatory.

"Bella, what are you staring at?" Jessica asked.

And just then, Edward looked over and made direct eye contact with me.

I ducked my head immediately, caught, but I was sure he hadn't looked as
full of rage has he had before. Just curious again, as he had been the
last time this had happened in the cafeteria instead of the biology
room. Were his attitudes determined by the *room*? How bizarre would
that be?

"Edward Cullen is staring at you," Jessica giggled.

"He is?" She probably would have mentioned it if he'd started looking
murderous again.

"Yep," she teased.

"Please stop looking at him," I said. I turned towards Mike's
conversation in progress -- elaborate snow-enhanced battle plans -- and
kept my eyes to my own table for the rest of the lunch period.

When Mike and Angela and I left the cafeteria together to head to
Biology, the snow had turned to rain, and all of his weaponry was in the
process of melting. He, and most of the other students, groaned. I was
relieved not to have to fear snowballs between classes, and although I
did miss the decoration, I hadn't fancied trying to drive home in my
very first snowfall.

I was glad that I had changed lab partners and that I didn't have to sit
right next to Edward after his absence. Especially since he had a brief,
bizarrely heated exchange with the teacher about the new seating chart
before finally taking his place next to Angela's former neighbor. I
couldn't hear most of it, but his tone was incredulous, and the girl he
was to share his table with was closer to the front of the room and
looked vaguely offended. And then Edward stared at me again. Not
angrily. Just frustrated, as the first time.

I turned my attention to the lab when the teacher finished setting up
and told us to start identifying the phases of mitosis on our microscope
slides. Angela and I worked well together; we alternated checking the
slides first and then checked one another's work, with her making one
error that I caught and, as far as we could tell, none on my part. While
she copied our answers onto the sheet, I glanced around the room. One of
the pairs had a book open under the table, trying to hide the forbidden
reference from the teacher. Mike and his partner kept swapping between
two slides, comparing them. Edward was staring at me again, and his lab
partner was gazing into space; either they'd completed the assignment
before anyone else, or they had both decided to ignore it completely.

His eyes were dark gold. I was sure they'd been black before. I hadn't
written it down and *could* be misremembering... but I was *sure* they
had been black.

I looked away again. Angela's handwriting was very tidy and so she was
doing all of our recording, but she had noted in the margins who
identified which slides first and the one mistake that I had caught so
the credit was shared appropriately. I smiled and murmured to her that I
appreciated it, and she smiled warmly, thanking me in turn for spotting
the misidentification.

The teacher came around and noted everyone's scores. I was able to just
barely overhear that Edward and his partner had gotten full marks:
speed, then, not abandonment. Angela and I, plus one other pair, did
equally well; everyone else had something missing.

There was a brief hubbub as equipment was put away and the teacher
recorded our scores in his grade book, and then collective focus turned
to the transparencies he used to explain the lab. I zoned out a little,
mostly just staring at the bright rectangle at the front of the room
with pictures of cells in it. Sometimes I checked to see where Edward's
attention was. Every time it was on me. I wondered if the teacher
noticed. The fact that he consistently turned out to be staring at me
only made me more tempted to check repeatedly. Finally I made a face at
him -- trying to convey something like, "*What is your DEAL?*" with my
eyes -- and he turned towards the front of the room for the rest of the
class, body language tense but his visual focus off me.

Edward raced nimbly out of the room when the bell rang. I'd half
suspected that he'd lurk on the route to gym and accost me when I walked
by, demanding whatever secret he found so frustrating. I stuck close to
Mike. "That was awful," Mike groaned. "They all looked exactly the same.
How'd you do so well?"

"I'd done it before," I said. "With fish, not onion, but it's the same
idea."

"Lucky," commented Mike, and then he started griping about the departed
snow.

I stuck to a simple set of four poses during my yoga session to leave me
more focus for thinking. I decided that unremitting staring was probably
a significant enough act of harrassment that, if I thought I needed it,
I could get faculty attention about it. I resolved that Edward had two
days to cut it out or I'd try to speak to Alice, and if that didn't turn
up anything, he had a week and I'd speak to the biology teacher, and if
that came to nothing, I'd wait another week and involve Charlie.
Charlie's approval of the family would not, I was sure, stand up to my
complaint, especially when I could probably get the also-approved-of
Mike to back me up. After two more weeks of staring, if it got that bad,
Mike would notice something. He was attentive enough. (I still needed to
think of something to do about *that*, but it was a secondary problem.)

After gym, I went to my truck, hopped in the cab, and ran the heater to
warm my hands so I could comfortably grip the steering wheel. After a
minute I started to poke along out of the lot. On my way out, I spotted
Edward and Alice standing near the family Volvo. It looked like they
were arguing. They weren't loud enough for me to have heard them, even
if I'd cut the engine and rolled down a window, but it was clearly
intense.

I'd never even had a bizarre intermittent staring match with *Alice*, so
in all my vanity, I couldn't conceive of the conversation being about
me. There was nothing she knew or thought about me to argue for or
against. I continued towards home.

The next morning, I drove to school as usual, parked, and got out of my
truck. Not at all as usual, when I shut the truck door and turned
around, I found that Alice Cullen was standing beside me.

"Hello," she said chirpily. Her eyes were the same gold that Edward's
had been the previous day. "My name is Alice Cullen."

* * * * *

"Hello, I'm Bella," I said, automatically, politely, and then I
remembered to be confused. "What -"

"Oh, look," said Alice, seizing my arm in a friendly but inescapable
grip and pulling me towards the front left wheel of my truck, and then
past it. She pointed at the tire. "Snow chains. That was smart! I
thought you were from Phoenix and it never ices there."

I hadn't put the chains there, and I was surprised I hadn't noticed them
before I got into the truck that morning. I supposed that explained why
I hadn't had a terrible time driving to school in all the glittering
frozenness. "My dad -" I started to guess, but Alice was still hauling
on me and it made it hard to form sentences. It was outrageous, how
strong she was in spite of being so tiny. "Hey, um -"

"Look," she said again, dragging me farther and farther away from my
truck, "all these people have lived in Forks all their lives and half of
them don't chain their tires." Finally she seemed to think that, four
parking spaces away from the Chevy, we had moved far enough, but she
maintained her hold on my arm. I expected to find my skin painted with
bruises later.

"Alice," I said, but before I could ask her to please release my arm, a
dark blue van skidded across the parking lot and collided with the back
corner of my truck.

The truck was sturdy. It made an awful noise, and I lost some paint, but
I didn't doubt it would work later.

I would have been standing in the path of the van if Alice hadn't pulled
me away.

Alice no longer seemed to find it necessary to hold my arm in her vice
of a hand, but I decided that if she'd found it appropriate in the first
place she wouldn't mind my clinging back just a little bit. She was
little and bony but didn't sag under my attempt to seek support. I made
a small burbling sound.

"Chains on tires in icy weather are *such* a good idea," said Alice
sagely.

I wobbled in place, wrapped around Alice's unprotesting arm and trying
not to fall over. Between the ice and the fact that I'd just nearly been
trapped between a truck and a van, it was a challenge, but eventually I
found enough footing and mental stability to let go of her.
"Aaaaaaaugh," I said. My voice was strangely devoid of emotion,
considering. It should have been exhibiting relief, or stress, or
confusion, or gratitude, or some combination of those things.

I supposed Alice deserved to hear the last one spoken aloud. "Thank
you," I added to my ineloquent exhalation.

"For what?" she said. "The compliment about the snow chains and how
smart that was? You're welcome!"

It seemed obvious that she was playing dumb, somehow, but I couldn't
fathom why. The van hadn't been anywhere in sight when she'd started
pulling me away from the truck; there was nothing for her to play dumb
*about*. "For pulling me out of the way," I said. "If you hadn't, the
van would have squished me."

"That was lucky!" she said cheerfully. "Hey, I'd better get to my class.
I'll see you at lunch, Bella!"

Alice danced away, her grace untroubled by the ice. I blinked at her a
couple of times, and then tottered towards the blue van for the ritual
exchange of insurance information.

* * * * *

Tyler Crowley was the van's driver; I recognized him from my Government
class. He'd gotten a few small cuts, but looked mostly okay; without any
humans in the path of his out-of-control car, he'd mostly focused on
slowing down and hadn't careened too crazily. By the time I'd written
down all the details, Charlie had arrived -- apparently the school
secretary had called emergency services. He was worried about me at
first, but I reassured him that I'd been standing "all the way over
there" and that my truck was "just fine, thanks for the chains by the
way" and that my witness's remarks were "all written down right here" (I
tore a page out of my notebook) and that I was "going to go to class
now, I don't want to get any later, love you, Dad".

I was late to English, but after explaining the car accident -- with
Alice edited out, the implication being that I'd wandered autonomously
out of harm's way -- I wasn't in trouble. Mike and Eric overheard the
story. Mike seemed to decide the best reaction was one of exaggerated
compassion, making sure I was okay, did I need help touching up the
paint on my truck, etcetera. Eric went with something more along the
lines of "wow, Bella had a cool adventure", which would have been the
pleasanter of the two if it hadn't made everyone in the class lean in
and want me to tell all about my cool adventure.

Tyler was back in school by the time Government started, and he
apologized profusely about the minor scratches to my car. His face was
covered in bandaids that stood out brightly beige against his brown skin
and it was fairly silly-looking. I waved off the apologies; he hadn't
caused the ice, and if he'd had any choice about where to aim his van at
all, my truck was a good target, sturdy thing it was.

The minor accident -- or "cool adventure" -- was the talk of the school
all morning. Jessica seemed morbidly fascinated by the fact that I could
have been killed if I hadn't been some twenty feet away before Tyler had
even lost control of his car. She kept talking about it all the way from
Spanish to lunch. I was just about to ask her if she could please stop
describing my gruesome counterfactual death when, right outside the
cafeteria doors, Alice appeared at my elbow.

"Hello, Bella," she said.

"Hi," I said. I blinked. Alice was not quite as aggressively mysterious
as Edward, but she was *puzzling*. At least she didn't scare me. Jessica
looked put out by her arrival.

"I'm going to go in and sit down, Bella," said Jessica after enough of a
pause to be awkward.

"Okay," I said over my shoulder, still facing Alice. "Later, Jess."

Jessica went inside, and I looked back at the tiny girl who had saved my
skin that morning. She was smiling at me like she was dying to tell me
what I would get for my birthday but had promised not to. We stared at
each other for a bit.

"Uh," I said. "Thanks again for getting me out of the way earlier..."

"You're welcome!" exclaimed Alice. "Do you want to sit with me at lunch
today?"

"You -- and your, uh, siblings?"

"Hmm," said Alice, furrowing her brow. "No, I don't think that would be
a good idea. Just me."

I spent two seconds debating whether to ask her *why* or not. I decided
it would be rude and that I might get clues if I sat with her anyway.
"Sure," I said.

My usual tablemates looked puzzled when I walked in with Alice, and I
gave them a look intended to convey "I don't know what's going on
either, I'm just going with it". They continued to look puzzled. I
suspected that most, if not all, of the content of my meaningful looks
was lost in translation. I'd catch up with them later and use words
instead.

Alice bought a sandwich and a bottle of apple juice. I took a soda, a
banana, and, as it was Taco Day, a tortilla full of fixings, and then we
found an empty table. I opened my drink and partially peeled my fruit.
Alice didn't touch her purchases.

When I'd finished my banana, I said, "Aren't you going to eat?"

"I forgot that this kind of sandwich has mayonnaise on it," she said at
once. "I don't like mayonnaise."

It was a tuna sandwich. I wondered if there were any commercially
available tuna sandwiches without mayonnaise. "Why don't you get a
different one? You never opened it, I bet they'd let you trade it right
back," I said.

That one stumped her for a moment. Then she said, "I'm not that hungry
anyway. I can just have a snack when I get home in a couple hours."

Uh-huh. "What about your juice?"

"I only like juice with food," she said.

"I'll trade you my soda if you want, I don't care," I offered.

"No, thank you," Alice said firmly.

I turned my head a bit to look at her from another angle, as though that
would help. "Don't like soda?"

"I don't. Sorry," she said with an apologetic smile.

"What *do* you like to eat?"

That threw her a bit. She stared at me blankly for a second before she
said, as though at random, "Grapes. Love grapes."

"Is that all?"

She pouted a little, as though disappointed that naming a fruit wasn't
enough to turn off my curiosity, and started reciting a paragraph's
worth of food items. They were all consistent with her manifest
preferences (no mayonnaise, no soda, nothing she could have easily
gotten from the school cafeteria), but she sounded like she was reading
her grocery list. My past experience with talking extensively about food
preferences tended to involve people going on about the little details.
If they liked cheese, they'd mention in an aside that Camembert was only
worth eating from a particular creamery. Chocolate lovers would have a
story about which shop gave out a free sample of which truffle. Fans of
quiche would take a moment to dispel the myth that it was difficult to
make. Anyone who brought up potato salad would also have a longstanding
recipe rivalry with a neighbor. At a minimum they'd specify that the pot
roast was to be "the way Grandma makes it". Alice didn't include
anything like that; she just listed generic things. "Cauliflower.
Pomegranates. Salami. Biscuits. Pistachios. Chickpeas. Licorice.
Polenta."

I let her rattle on for a bit, and then held up a hand. "Okay. Very
well-rounded diet."

Alice grinned at me.

Lunch with Alice was very awkward. Whenever I made up my mind to say
something she spoke first, with some innocuous non-sequitur.
Occasionally it was interesting -- she had perspectives on the
personalities of some of the teachers that I could imagine being useful
-- but just as often it was entirely apropos of nothing. I was treated to
a six-minute description of the mishap-filled shopping expedition that
had yielded the boots she was wearing; she told me about the weather in
Alaska; she listed the colors and locations of the stains she'd gotten
on herself when she learned to tie-dye.

I wondered if she was actually insane.

I decided to ask her if she might know what Edward's deal was, and
before I opened my mouth, she said, "Did you know that in Korean -"

"Alice," I said, talking over her, "can I ask you something?"

Her eyes got very wide. She stared at me. She appeared to be desperately
wondering if there was a polite way to say *"no, you may not"* and
coming up blank. Finally she nodded once.

"On my first day here, your brother Edward looked at me very angrily, in
Biology and again after school, and then he was out of school for a
week, and yesterday he wouldn't stop looking at me in class like he was
frustrated about something I'd done even though we've never spoken; do
you know why either of those things might be?"

Alice gazed, gold-irised, into my eyes. A confusing mix of expressions I
couldn't follow crossed her face, and finally she said, "I don't think I
should discuss Edward's personal business."

"Because," I said, frowning, "it was kind of concerning to me. I had
actually decided that if he didn't stop staring at me, I was going to
treat it like a harrassment issue. It doesn't feel very safe. And it's
distracting."

Her hands were under the table, but her shoulders moved like she was
wringing them. I heard a rocky scraping noise and guessed that she had a
pebble stuck in the sole of her boot that was scratching up the
linoleum. "I... don't *think*... that he will hurt you," she said.

There were so many more reassuring ways she could have uttered those
exact words.

"I would consider it a personal favor," I said, slowly and carefully,
"if you'd tell your brother that I don't appreciate being glared at like
I killed his dog, or scrutinized like an unsolved Rubik's cube, while I
am trying to do my schoolwork or while I am trying to eat my lunch. I
think it would be better for me and him and everybody involved if he cut
it out before I involve a teacher, or the principal, or my father, who
you probably know is the police chief. I have never done anything to
antagonize Edward whatsoever."

"I know you haven't," Alice said quickly.

"Good. I hope he knows it too," I said, trying to sound earnest.

"He does," she assured me. "I'll, um, talk to him about it." And with
that she got up and fled, leaving her untouched mayonnaise-tainted
sandwich and sealed bottle of juice on the table behind her.

* * * * *

I moved back to my usual lunch group with my taco and soda. My friends
wanted to know what the deal had been with Alice, but I honestly had
only fragments of likely-misleading clues, and the topic soon fizzled
out as they lost interest in exotic speculations. The topic turned to
the upcoming beach trip. I sat through this part of the exchange
silently except for the necessary noises of assent and enthusiasm, and
thought about the Cullen family.

I was trying to avoid excessive notebook use in school, around Jessica
in particular -- her tendency towards indiscriminate gossip wasn't
showing any signs of being a fluke -- and so I couldn't organize my wisps
of thought visually, as helpful as it would have been. I closed my eyes,
adding a feigned tired sigh, and tried to make an imaginary sketch of
the mystery.

The Cullens were rich. Dr. Cullen was, well, a doctor, and by Charlie's
account a very good one. If he had worked at a better-paying hospital
for some years, and saved *very* much more carefully than most people
were capable of, then that might explain it alone. But they were a young
couple. Medical school took a long time. It seemed... not impossible,
but unlikely, that there would have been not a speck of a murmur about
it if Dr. Cullen had been a child prodigy who'd graduated medical school
when he was fourteen, or something. As far as I knew, Mrs. Cullen didn't
work. They had five children to feed (they *had* to eat, in spite of how
Alice had acted and the fact that I'd never seen one of them do it --
were they concealing outrageously restrictive food allergies or a
religious dietary requirement that embarrassed them for some reason?)
and clothe and keep in trendy school supplies, plus a house.

*Were* there any really big hospitals in Alaska that could have paid Dr.
Cullen a great salary? It wasn't the *least* populous state, but it was
way down there, spread out over the largest area. If there was an
expensive research clinic or something in Anchorage, I supposed I
wouldn't have known about it, so it was possible that Dr. Cullen had
spent several years living cheap and only two years ago suddenly cut his
income, moved to a small town, and started providing his children with a
shiny car and sizeable clothing budgets.

It was not impossible that the Hales' parents had left the Cullens some
money in their wills. Or that when the Cullen children were adopted,
they came with monetary bonuses to help with their care (and I didn't
know how long those three had been in the family, except that it was
longer than two years). Or that they were wealthy independent of the
doctor's income for some other reason. But that, too, seemed like
something I'd have heard a rumor about. There was little to no way that
a resident of Forks was a lottery winner or the heir to a diamond cartel
or a trust fund baby or something similarly dramatic and pecuniary
without it being branded on their forehead forever by public chat.
Jessica had proven able to divulge astonishingly personal things.

They all bore *weird* visual similarities. The pale skin, the incredible
beauty. But they were not, supposedly, genetically related, except
Jasper and Rosalie, who had only hair color in common (none of them
looked like *family* -- they looked like they took the same dance classes
and wore the same full-coverage white makeup and had been handpicked
from the same modeling agency). I knew it was hard to adopt children --
if the Hales were Mrs. Cullen's niece and nephew, that did some
explanatory work, but Edward, Emmett, and Alice were from some other
source. Didn't it take years of paperwork and waiting to get a child? I
supposed it was faster if one was willing to take an older adoptee -- but
then, it was slower if you wanted a white kid, one without developmental
problems. (This was evidence in *favor* of the hypothesis that Alice,
and possibly Edward, were insane, which would have made them easier to
adopt. I didn't know about Emmett. But they all did well in school and
largely kept to themselves and Charlie thought they were model
citizens...)

And it was known that Mrs. Cullen couldn't have children of her own.
Since her husband was a doctor, that *might* have turned up earlier than
it would in most couples, but my impression was that fertility testing
didn't customarily enter a conception attempt until considerable trial
and failure.

The timeline just didn't shake out naturally. I was placing a lot of
faith in Forks's rumor mill, but it was a very good one. I guessed that
Dr. Cullen was thirty-five at the *very* oldest. He was supposed to look
a decade younger than that. If he'd finshed high school when he was
sixteen, say -- he probably could have skipped a grade or two back in
elementary school without that making its way to my ears -- and gotten
through med school in an accelerated seven-year program so he had his
doctorate at age 23, and raced through whatever licensing hoops were in
his way at age 24, and was such a miraculous boon to medicine that he'd
*immediately* gotten his super high paying job in Alaska --

And by then the Hales would have been living with Mrs. Cullen. I didn't
know when Dr. and Mrs Cullen had gotten married, so they might not have
been living out of the doctor's pocketbook until later. (But what was
Mrs. Cullen doing before they married? If she had job skills, they'd
never made it into the town consciousness.) But that left Dr. Cullen
eight years racking up the big bucks. Not enough time for really
high-yield investments to pay out. Was he living like a graduate student
that entire time, surviving on ramen and store samples, only to start
living like a king a little later on when he'd have to mostly eat
savings to do it? When did the other three kids come in? If he'd been
saving like a Scrooge during this period, why did they act so *used* to
their nice things? Alice's story about her boots hadn't held any of the
earmarks of being a gleeful once-a-year splurge, and I was sure they'd
cost at least two hundred dollars, though she hadn't named a figure.

What about school loans? I guessed if I was factoring into the story
that he was a brilliant doctor commanding an immense salary, he could
also have been a brilliant student commanding a full-ride scholarship...

The bell rang.

* * * * *

Edward seemed to be *following* me to Biology. This was a slightly silly
impression to have even given everything that had happened: we were both
starting from the cafeteria, and were both headed for the same
classroom. But he was walking right behind me, and seemed to be matching
pace awfully precisely with me, Angela, and Mike. I couldn't speed up
with all the ice on the paths -- so I slowed down, claiming to my friends
that I felt liable to fall. This was entirely credible, as I did fall
down a lot even on surfaces not encrusted with slippery substances. They
slowed down with me.

Instead of going around, Edward slowed down too. It did not seem likely
that this was a coincidence or that he felt a deep and abiding need to
keep off the grass.

What had Alice *said* to him, anyway?

We arrived at Biology after what seemed like a very long trip to have
squeezed into only three minutes. Angela and I sat at our table, Mike
slid in beside his partner, and Edward walked through the door a half a
step behind us. He hesitated, like he wanted to go on following us -- me
-- but instead plopped into his chair. He held himself very stiffly but
didn't turn around to look at me.

Biology progressed in perfect ordinariness. Mike and I walked to gym,
which ensued with no unusual happenings. It wasn't until I walked out of
the gym building that Edward Cullen appeared at my side and said,
"Hello, Bella."

I jumped, startled. My feet came down on the ice and immediately sheered
off in opposite directions. I went down, scrunching my eyes closed and
emitting a squeak. But where I expected my head to crack on the ice,
there was silence. I opened one eye.

Edward had caught me neatly, and it must have looked to bystanders like
we were in the middle of a very oddly timed ballroom dance. "Are you all
right?" he asked.

"Yes," I said. "Please let go of me."

Edward stood me back up. He didn't seem to have any trouble with moving
me around any which way he pleased, nor with avoiding balance challenges
himself. "Thank you," I said, but I narrowed my eyes a little bit. I
waited for him to talk next. He was the one who had greeted me;
presumably he had a reason. I started counting to five in my head; if he
hadn't gotten my attention by the time I reached it, I was going to
continue towards my car.

"Alice told me you were upset by my... staring... earlier," he said in
that smooth voice (if they made voices out of caramel, this would be one
of them), looking into my eyes steadily. His were still gold. "I wanted
to apologize."

"Oh," I said. It wasn't very helpful of me, but I didn't feel
charitable; I wanted to see what he'd say without prompting.

"I'm sorry," he said, after an awkward pause, apparently having realized
that saying he wanted to apologize wasn't quite actually apologizing.

"I accept your apology," I said. I'd gotten into the habit of saying
that instead of "it's okay" when I was fourteen, having noticed that I
often wanted to accept apologies for things that were not really *okay*.

"Thank you," said Edward.

"You're welcome," I replied.

There was another pause. I began counting to five again.

"Would you like me to walk you to your car?" he offered when I'd reached
three. "I noticed you seem to have some trouble with the ice."

"No, thank you," I said.

This seemed to surprise him. "May I ask why?" he inquired after a
moment.

I considered the pros and cons of various answers. Eventually I hedged
my bets: "Are you sure you want to know?"

"Yes," he said immediately.

"Because I'm liable to ask very intrusive personal questions of you if I
spend time with you socially, and I prefer to avoid situations in which
I'm especially likely to be rude." And then, because it would have put
the lie to my statement if I'd done otherwise, I turned and picked my
way across the ice towards the parking lot.

Of course Edward couldn't let me walk away; he loped beside me, one long
easy step to six of my careful ones. "Why would you ask intrusive
personal questions?" he asked lightly.

"Because there are a number of things about you -- your family in
general, actually -- that don't add up," I said, deciding that if he kept
following me after what I'd told him, he wasn't entitled to special
rudeness-avoiding care. "You are distractingly mysterious."

"You like solving mysteries?"

"I like the nonexistence of mysteries. Mysteries mean I've missed
something," I said shortly.

"Interesting," Edward murmured softly. "What's missing about me?"

He seemed to want to keep me talking. That was potentially useful. I
stopped -- carefully, on a salted patch of sidewalk -- and turned to face
him. "If I tell you what's missing, will you fill in the gaps?"

"Probably not," he said, smiling in a manner that he probably thought
was roguish.

"Then I have no incentive to answer your question," I said, and I
continued to walk to my car.

Edward's face fell, and he kept following me. "What?"

"The only reason I'd mention to you what's confusing about you would be
if I thought you'd demystify things for me," I said briskly. "I don't
enjoy having my curiosity abused to no end. If I thought it was fun to
muse aloud about things that confuse me, I could talk to one of my
friends or parents instead. In the reasonably likely event that you're
hiding something on *purpose*, then telling you what's off about you
will only help you cover things up better -- and I've got no motive to
help cover up a secret I'm not in on, since I don't know if there are
adequate reasons for it or not."

He kept following me until I got to my truck, although he didn't come up
with anything else to say during the brief journey. "I suppose I'll see
you tomorrow," I said as I pulled open my cab door.

"Of course," he said. "Tomorrow."

I hopped into the driver's seat and went home.

* * * * *

I pulled into the driveway, let myself in, and started a pot of lentils
boiling, because they were impossible to overcook as long as I added
water periodically, and so would be hot and ready to eat whenever
Charlie got home.

I pulled out my notebook and wrote for a solid forty-five minutes. My
hand was cramping up by the time I was done. All the confusing tidbits,
all the erratic pieces of behavior, everything I'd heard from Jessica
and other sources. I tapped the eraser end of my pencil several times
around the bit where I'd written about Alice's lunch behavior. Her
timing was *strange*. She'd interrupted me just *before* I'd asked any
awkward questions, and I was sure I hadn't *looked* like I was going to
say anything. I'd recorded video of myself thinking and writing before,
just for kicks -- my emotions were readable, but if I closed my eyes and
skipped to a random point in the video before re-opening them, I
couldn't tell whether I was about to write something or not until my arm
actually moved. And I'd been the one *in* the video.

And then there was the bit with the van, in the morning...

I thought of a crazy idea.

I thought of a very cheap test.

That was the only kind of test worth doing on a crazy idea. If one was
wise, one didn't bet one's life savings and firstborn child on something
this silly. But it would cost me less to perform *this* test than it
would cost to expend the willpower on avoiding it, now that I'd thought
it up.

I shut my notebook. I shut my eyes.

I *made up my mind* that, when Charlie got home, I was going to tell him
all about my suspicions of the Cullens.

Fifteen minutes later, the doorbell rang.

The Reveal
==========

When the bell rang, I was at the stove, giving the lentils a stir and
pouring in a little more water. I left the spoon in the pot and went to
answer the door. It was Alice.

"Hello, Bella," she said.

"Hello, Alice," I replied. "Can I help you?"

"May I come in, please?" Alice asked.

I thought about this. Charlie wouldn't likely object to my having her
over; although I didn't have any classes with Alice, she was a peer in
some sense, and he swore up and down that she and her family were the
ideal sort of people. Besides, if I was ever going to figure out the
answers to my questions, it would probably involve talking to some
Cullens at some time. I stood aside and waved Alice into the house; she
pranced inside.

"Want some lentils?" I asked idly, gesturing at the pot on the stove.
"They're sort of related to chickpeas, I think."

"I already ate," said Alice. "Thank you very much anyway."

I nodded and sat down at the kitchen table; Alice did the same. "So," I
said. "What's up?"

"Be patient with me, please," Alice said, looking pained. "I have a lot
to tell you and I've never had to explain it before and it's *really
complicated* and my family is going to be angry at me, but there's no
other way, I *looked*, there's really not. You've got to know, and
sooner's safer than later."

"I, um, register a general approval of knowing things rather than not,
and of safety," I said. "Do you think you're going to be able to explain
what you want to explain before Charlie -- I mean, my dad -- gets home?"

"Yes," said Alice confidently. "He won't get back until after eight. The
basics won't take longer than that. You're going to want extra proof,
but we can meet some other day and take care of it. So, uh, first -- I
can predict the future."

I nodded slowly, inviting her to go on. My crazy idea was looking less
crazy. If Alice believed of *herself* that she could predict the future,
*and* I'd independently thought of it -- it was still wildly unlikely,
but she was willing to let me test it, apparently, and that sure was
*something*.

"Here," she said, passing me a folded sheet of paper. "It's the weather
for the next week. I know that weather reports are sometimes right and
that Forks is easier to guess than anywhere else, but weather's easy for
me, and I put everything down to the minute. I can do physical events
like that with no trouble. I can tell what people are going to do if
they've made their decisions -- if they might do any of several things I
get less clear images, but not nothing -- but minds can always change. So
weather's one of the best tests."

I unfolded the sheet of paper. It specfied heavy rain until 11:09 that
evening, after which brief sleeting was called for, and then a subdued
drizzle would dominate the night. She'd thrown in a rainbow for Thursday
morning. I folded the paper back up. "Dice?" I proposed.

"Cards would be better. How you shake the dice matters, but once you
shuffle cards they stay put," Alice said. "I can do better than chance
with dice if you prefer them, though. Oh, but you have a dice cup. I can
do perfectly with dice too that way."

I got some of both from the cabinet under the stairs and offered Alice a
sheet of paper. I shuffled the deck several times and she filled her
page with predictions, writing rapidly and with perfect penmanship. Then
I took the paper and flipped through each card in succession.

* * * * *

She got them all right. I didn't bother repeating the cards right away;
time was limited and I already had more information than I could readily
explain. Charlie indeed owned a dice cup, which Alice said would let her
get all of the dice perfect as long as I hid the cubes under it for a
moment after shaking them. She was right sixteen times in a row, at
which point I swept the dice out of the way and planted my elbows on the
table.

"How do you do it?" I asked.

"I honestly *don't* know," said Alice. "I've been able to as long as I
could remember. I focus on people, or things, and the possibilities show
themselves in visions. No audio, but I'm okay at lipreading; they're not
always very clear, and it gives me headaches to focus on really
indecisive people."

"As long as you can remember is -- how long?" I asked. "You're, what, my
age? A year older?"

"I'm at least a hundred years old," said Alice evenly, maintaining
steady eye contact.

"What? Wait -- at least?"

"I woke up in 1920 with no memories and looked about as old as I do now.
I think I'm physically nineteen, but if I look old for my age -- I mean,
the age I was when it happened -- then I could have been born as late as
1905 or so," she said.

"And when you woke up you could see the future," I said. I wasn't sure
if I was playing along or if I really bought the rest of the story along
with her casino-busting tricks, but even if she were playing with me,
outright lies were a change of pace from cryptic eccentricity.

"Yes," she said. "I'm not -- none of my family is -- human. But I'm the
only one who can't remember being one. We're not sure what happened to
me; I can't see the past the same way I can see the future. The rest of
them know more about where they came from."

"And so you are a...?"

"Vampire," said Alice, wincing a little. "Please don't freak out."

"I... really *don't* think I want you to prove that to me," I began
carefully.

"No, nonononono," said Alice, her eyes flying open very wide, "we don't
drink human blood. Not my family. Animals only. Although it wouldn't be
smart for you to watch us eating them, either."

"Okay... That's why you guys never eat anything at school?"

Alice winced. "I know it's kind of conspicuous. It's not physically
impossible for us to swallow normal food, but it's really, really
unpleasant. And we can't digest it, so it just all comes back up later."

"Charming mental image," I remarked. "Is that why you all look like
you're made of chalk, too?" Alice nodded. I asked, "Did you ever
consider wearing makeup?"

"They don't make the stuff to stay on our skin," she said, holding out
an arm. "Go ahead," she added.

I laid my palm on the back of her hand. She felt like a piece of rock.
Cold, smooth, unyielding rock. I nodded.

"It'd all rub off as soon as we touched anything," she said, putting her
arm back down. "So before you ask, most of the myths are false. We do
drink blood, but have no unusual relationship with bats, no aversion to
garlic in particular over anything else you might eat, don't sleep in
coffins -- or at all, actually -- can't turn into smoke, and aren't harmed
by sunlight. Although sunlight does make us kind of conspicuous, so we
avoid going out in it in public. That's why we pick places like this to
live -- cloud cover. A stake through the heart would be impossible --
there's no way you could drive a piece of wood through my eye, let alone
my ribcage -- and decapitation's only an issue if we don't get everything
reattached in a hurry. We can catch fire, though, so please don't try
that one. We are very fast, agile, and strong, and have very acute
senses."

Alice decided to illustrate this last sentence by getting up, jumping
into the air, and landing on one hand, which she used to support herself
with no visible effort. "One comes to have more vampires than one had
before by taking a human and adding venom. Easiest way to get that is
from a bite, but according to Carlisle, if I cried into an open wound I
could turn someone that way too. The process is not fun. I can't
remember mine, and wasn't there for any of the others', but I am told
that it takes three days and is emphatically not fun. You can't undo it.
Afterwards we don't age. We have to move around a lot so people don't
wonder about that too much."

I stared at her.

She pushed off the ground, did a little flip, and landed on her feet,
then sat back in her chair. "Questions?"

* * * * *

"Did I actually summon you here by deciding to go to Charlie, or was
that a coincidence?" I asked.

"You summoned me, sort of, but please don't make too much of a habit of
that," said Alice. "When *that* firmed up we all flew into a panic. It
would be a huge problem if police started investigating us. We'd have to
move. Probably abroad for a while just to be safe, maybe split up."

"Is this all of you, or are you split up from some others now?" I asked.

"This is all of our family. We have some friends up in Denali, and a few
acquaintances scattered around elsewhere," Alice said.

I nodded. "Uh... why wouldn't it be a good idea for me to see you eat?"

"Because when we hunt we're not thinking very clearly," Alice explained.
"Humans smell a lot more appetizing than animals do. If we're hunting,
and a human wanders by -- we might be able to pull back, I know Carlisle
-- our father, Dr. Cullen -- could at least, but there'd be more risk than
there is just attending school with us."

"And attending school with you is... how much risk, approximately?" I
asked. A little shiver ran up my back.

"With me -- not much," Alice said soothingly. "Or Rosalie or Emmett.
Jasper has more trouble than most of us, but we look out for him -- if I
saw him losing it I'd get him out of the building in plenty of time."

She hadn't mentioned Edward. I looked at her pointedly.

"Edward is... very controlled," Alice said. "Normally I wouldn't think
he'd ever be a danger."

"Normally," I prompted.

Alice winced. "Um. Will you promise that you won't flip out and run away
and never talk to Edward again?"

"I will promise no such thing!" I exclaimed. "If Edward's going to drain
my fluids like I'm a Cadbury creme egg I *really think I ought to know*,
whether or not this will cause me to do something that will hurt his
*feelings*."

"I really really really don't think he will!" shrilled Alice. "I don't
see it -- not anymore -- but you're right, you should know. Um, humans
smell very tasty. And some humans smell... tastier... than... others.
To... specific vampires."

I dropped my head into my hands. "Right. And I smell very, very yummy to
Edward."

Alice nodded. "You should put more water in your lentils," she said.
"They'll burn soon."

I went to the sink to fill up a cup. "Why," I asked, "did he come back
to school? I realize it's a *hassle* to move, but if he's likely to lose
it around me, why didn't he just stay wherever he went that week he was
gone? I think my *life* ought to be worth some hassle."

"He went to visit our friends in Denali," supplied Alice. "He came back
because... It's complicated. We missed him -- especially our mother Esme.
And he... is curious about you."

"Wants to know what I taste like with dijon mustard?" I asked
scathingly, returning to my seat.

"Ew," said Alice, wrinkling her nose. "No, I mean -- I'm not the only one
with a power. Edward -- and Jasper -- have them too. Edward can... read
minds."

I stood up so fast my chair fell over. *"What in the name of everything
decent and sane is he doing around people?"* I screeched, pulse racing.

"Bella! Bella, please! Calm down!" begged Alice. "It's not as bad as you
think!"

"How could *reading minds* be anything other than a *flagrant and
unconscionable* violation of privacy that everyone around him has every
reason to expect?" I cried. I'd been worried someone would steal my
*notebook*, would make my thoughts public in that condensed and encoded
form. (I'd once considered actual code -- some simple cipher to make the
writing opaque to a casual observer -- but I hadn't managed to develop
one *I* could read fluently. It was a tradeoff.) It had never crossed my
mind that anyone would be able to wander by and casually pluck them
directly from my brain.

They. Were. *Mine*.

I was evaluating escape plans -- ways to get to Phoenix, ways to get my
grandma to take me in, ways to get anywhere but near the mindreader --
but Alice rushed through a series of placating sentences: "Bella, he
can't read *you*. You're completely opaque to him. You're the only one
he's never been able to hear, but he can't, he really can't, Bella, it's
*okay*."

I decided to provisionally act as though I believed her -- there was no
way I could be out of Forks for the long term in the hour remaining
before eight o'clock anyway -- and forced myself calm. I picked up my
chair. I sat in it. I folded my arms. I frowned at Alice. "And everyone
else?"

"In the family we're all used to it, we don't mind, it's useful
sometimes," said Alice earnestly. "Like, he can see what I see --
honestly, if he couldn't, we wouldn't be having this conversation now.
He's very trustworthy -- if he reads something we don't want shared he
keeps it to himself. And Edward thinks other people -- humans -- are
*boring*. He tunes them out ninety-five percent of the time. He can't
turn it off entirely, but he doesn't have to *listen* any more than you
have to concentrate on what people are saying at a crowded party."

"Right," I said grudgingly. "This has what to do with him being
*curious* about me?"

"He won't go into much detail... but he's really frustrated that he
can't read you. I'm not sure why, he thinks everyone else is so boring.
But he's been watching you through other people's eyes -"

I recoiled again. "Alice, those are my *friends*. I *care* if Edward has
been *reading their minds without permission*. That's not *okay*. It's
also not okay for him to *eavesdrop* on private conversations."

"I'll tell him that you -- I'll remember when he's nearby that you said
that," Alice promised.

"Is that likely to matter?" I asked skeptically.

"Actually, yes," said Alice.

That was surprising. "Why would he care what I think of what he does?"

Alice wrung her hands, and now I realized that the stony scraping noise
I'd heard at lunch was her *hands*, not a pebble in her boot. "I'm
spilling the beans *so much*," she moaned.

"Didn't you come here specifically *to* spill the beans?" I asked. I got
up to add more water to my lentils and stir them again.

"Only *most* of them. So you wouldn't... poke around too much. When I
decided to come talk to you, the future where you talked to your father
*did* go away. I don't see us moving anymore," she said defensively as I
re-took my seat.

"Well, yes, I have no plans to send Charlie to annoy a pack of vampires
who could pop him like a water balloon to cover their tracks," I said.

"We wouldn't hurt him..." said Alice uncertainly.

"I'm glad of that. I still wouldn't send him after you. Suppose you
didn't hurt him, just startled him with one of your super-strength
tricks or something, and he shot to subdue, and noticed that you are
made of *rock*? And then he tried to go to the media? Do you let him go?
Do you put him under house arrest in a bunker in Nunavut for the rest of
his life and send forged notes to his friends claiming that he's Patient
Zero of the chartreuse death plague and under quarantine at the CDC? Or
do you have a snack? Suppose he followed you really persistently,
thought you were up to something big, and ran into one of you stalking a
delicious bunny? Snacktime? Would Charlie look better or worse than the
bunny after that?"

"Um..." murmured Alice. "If he tried to go to the media, *we* wouldn't
have to hurt him. There are other vampires -- who *do* eat humans -- and
some of them take it on themselves to keep us a secret from humans."

I clonked my head on the table. "Right. How long do I have to live, dear
helpful Alice?"

"Actually..." said Alice with great reluctance.

I sat up instantly. "I -- dear lord, did you *genuinely* put my life in
danger by telling me this? Are the vampire masquerade organizers going
to swoop into Forks under cover of night and snuff me because you didn't
want to *move*?"

"I don't see that!" squeaked Alice.

"*What do you see?*"

*"You're going to be a vampire!"* she shrieked.

I sat back.

I blinked.

Alice peered up at me through her eyelashes, looking a thousand times
more fragile than she really was.

"Well," I said. "That's something. Turning is a
get-in-on-the-secret-free card? No awful death?"

Alice nodded mutely.

"When?"

"That I don't know," she said. "It *will* happen... but I don't know
when. You don't look a lot older in the visions I've had of it, though,
so -- soonish?"

*Soonish.* Incongruous sort of word to attach to the timing of my
impending vampirization.

* * * * *

I looked at the clock. Charlie would be home in half an hour. "I have a
few more questions left," I said.

"Right," murmured Alice. "Fire away."

"One: What does Edward care what I think?" I asked. Alice grimaced;
apparently she'd been hoping I'd forgotten that. "Two: What's Jasper's
power? And three: Who are the vampire masquerade organizers, and what
else pisses them off?"

Alice made a small, unhappy huffing noise at having to answer these, but
apparently saw that I wasn't going to let it go if she kept evading.
"Edward *likes* you," she said, getting the first part over with in
three reluctant words. "Jasper can sense and affect moods in the people
around him -- it's not a mental effect, just physical, things like pulse
rate. The 'vampire masquerade organizers' are called the Volturi. They
live in Volterra, Italy. We have to keep our secrets, which means that
if we create new vampires they have to be kept under control and we
can't be conspicuous ourselves. Inconspicuousness doesn't usually mean
avoiding feeding on humans, it just means doing it discreetly -- most
vampires move around a lot so they don't kill too many in any one
place."

I inhaled deeply, then let out a tired sigh. "I have a lot to process,"
I murmured. "I'll let you know when I think I've ground through it all.
By some more conventional means than deciding to out your family."

"Thank you," Alice said wryly. "I'll see you tomorrow."

"Bye," I said absently, staring at the bright yellow kitchen cabinets as
though if I did it hard enough I could count our plates. Alice let
herself out.

* * * * *

At 11:09, it sleeted, and a few minutes later it began to drizzle
slowly.

I did not sleep well.

* * * * *

I cut English the next morning. Just didn't go. I'd drop by after school
to hand in my homework. I was at home, abusing my notebook.

*STUFF I KNOW*

*- Cullens (& Hales) are weird in many ways. (See last page.)*

*- Alice exhibits freaky abilities consistent with telling the future
(van, interrupting-w/o-interrupting, showing up yesterday, CARDS & DICE,
weather so far (keep checking that)). No other hypotheses.*

*STUFF ALICE SAID*

*- Cullens & Hales are vampires.*

*- Vampires have superpowers, drink blood, are "conspicuous" in sun, are
made out of humans (not fun), don't age.*

*- Some have extras: Alice can see the future (seen evidence of this),
Edward reads minds (not mine), Jasper messes with (physical) components
of mood (do not want).*

*- I am extra yummy smelling to Edward.*

*- Edward* likes *me. (WTF. This sort of thing did not happen in Phoenix.
Worth cutting Govt. too to figure out general plan for this & Mike &
Eric??)*

*- Lots of vampires around. Most eat people. Cullens & Hales (& their
friends? didn't specify) don't.*

*- Bad idea to be around hunting vampires.*

*- Vampires sorta ruled (unclear on govt. system) by vampires called
Volturi in Volterra, Italy. Volturi like secrets & kill to enforce
rules.*

*- I will be a vampire. "Soonish". (!!!!!!!!!!)*

I drew arrows between things, circled key words in red, scribbled
phrases and punctuation in the margins so small that I couldn't read
them, and finally tore out the page and copied just the important parts
onto the next sheet more neatly.

Then I turned the page again and thought of experiments.

I couldn't come up with an ethical way to test Jasper's special ability
without letting him use it on me. Which I emphatically did not want to
do. Enlisting an informed outside party would spill the family's secret
if it was true; using uninformed outsiders would wrong them; using one
of the other vampires would be a test of their acting skills, not
necessarily Jasper's mood-altering mojo. After a moment's consternation,
I decided to skip that test. I didn't think Alice would be lying or
mistaken about Jasper's power *and nothing else*. If my other results
all pointed at "yep, magical vampires", I'd take the specific claim
about Jasper as part of the package unless I discovered that there was
some ulterior motive such that Alice might have chosen that particular
supernatural claim to fabricate. For safety reasons, I also did not
invent a test for the "drink blood" claim. I came up with some
relatively inexpensive tests of several of the other statements. They
would not be Absolutely Conclusive; I didn't expect to publish anything
in a journal, though, I just wanted to be sure that I wasn't reading way
into a few little quirks.

*1. Get a vampire to pick up something very big. Maybe a fallen log from
the woods or a boulder if one can be found. (Fear damage to truck -- not
designed to be lifted)*

*2. Find a wide open space and a spot with a good view of it, measure
it, get a vampire to beat the world sprinting record running it in plain
sight. Or send one from several miles from my house to retrieve
something from my house.*

*3. Quietly murmur things far away from vampires & test if they heard.
(Not Alice, or Edward who can read Alice.)*

*4. Write things and hold them up to far away vampires & test if they
read. (As above.)*

*5. Find out Edward's range. Write numbers, show them to a different
vampire, have Edward sit in mindreading range but out of (vampire!)
earshot & eyeshot where he will write down what he reads in the other
vampire's mind.*

*6. Look at a vampire in the sun.*

*7. Continue checking Alice's weather predictions. (All good as of
morning 01/26/05)*

I closed my notebook and looked at the clock. To make it to Government
in time, I didn't have to leave for another four minutes, but if I went
promptly I could drop off my homework at English first instead of
waiting until the end of the day. I decided not to skip another class
just to figure out why I was suddenly all kinds of popular with the
opposite sex. I packed up my things and left.

* * * * *

The teacher didn't seem to care about my poor attendance and accepted my
homework with only a small sigh, no ominous remarks about penalties for
lateness. I went to my next class, and the two after that, without
incident, and then came lunch.

Alice popped up next to me as I approached the door with Jessica again.
"Hello, Bella!" she said in her characteristically musical voice. "Do
you want to sit with us today?"

"Okay," I said. I needed to present my test ideas.

"Bella," said Jessica, with an edge of a whine to her voice.
Uncharitably, I thought *Aw, poor Jessica, the vampires are stealing
your shiny new friend*, but I shoved that thought in a back corner where
it wouldn't do any harm.

"Right, we were going to figure out when to study for the trig test," I
said, turning to Jessica instead of impolitely continuing to face Alice
as I had the previous day. I didn't think that was why she didn't like
that I would be sitting with the vampires, but it was a kinder
assumption, and it was a plan we'd actually had. "Uh, call me after
school and we'll pick a time then? My plans are kinda," I made a wild
gesture, "and I don't think I could nail down a spare couple hours now
anyway. Okay?" I smiled apologetically.

"Okay," said Jessica in an automatic sort of tone, and I widened my
smile a bit before following Alice to the vampire table. Halfway through
the trip across the room, she remembered that I needed food and she
needed props, and we detoured to fetch them, then resumed course.

Alice told me that I could whisper without interfering with her family's
ability to hear me, while preventing any other humans from getting an
earful; the vampires would speak loud enough to hear but choose moments
when no humans were nearby to speak. Alice announced that this wouldn't
happen to break up the flow of conversation much.

I wound up sitting at a corner, across from Edward, next to Alice. On
Alice's other side was Jasper, who sat opposite Rosalie, and Emmett
between her and Edward.

"Jessica is going to demand an explanation later," Edward murmured to me
when I sat.

"Did you read her mind to find that out?" I asked, carefully cooling the
hostility in my voice, and he started to nod, then glanced at Alice and
stopped.

"Alice said she'd tell you," I said carefully, "but I should probably
tell you myself. That is incredibly not okay. I understand that to
whatever extent you can't help it, well, you can't help it, and I can't
actually *verify* to what extent you can't help it and will give you
some benefit of the doubt. But *please* don't, not on purpose, not my
friends, not when it's not even important."

"Jessica's not much of a friend to you," he muttered. "She thinks some
very unkind things."

"Who doesn't? Don't *check*," I added hastily.

"Angela," he answered anyway. "From memory, at least."

"Great, yay for Angela, but I think unkind things about Jessica
occasionally too and it doesn't mean I'm not much of a friend to her, I
hope," I said. "She has flaws, I have flaws, there's lots to go around,
sometimes people will notice them, and unless she chooses to act on her
thoughts in ways that harm me, I'm not going to act on her thoughts in
ways that harm *her*. Especially since I shouldn't even have access to
that information. Her thoughts are *hers*. What kind of policy are you
advocating, anyway? Weren't you considering *eating* me, the first day I
was here? What an unkind thought, surely I should shun you."

Edward winced terribly, and Emmett chuckled. Jasper cracked a smile but
didn't make a sound. Rosalie looked bored and Alice conflicted.

"Speaking of magical powers, Jasper, I never want to be on the receiving
end of yours except in the unlikely event that I explicitly, verbally
request help. Alice didn't make it sound involuntary -- right?" I said,
turning to the blond boy.

"It's voluntary," he confirmed, looking wary. "But I'm not sure I can
promise that."

"If you can't promise that, then I need to find some other way to
protect myself," I said firmly. "It is possible, but unlikely, that you
will prefer whatever I come up with."

"Some emotional states aren't safe," Jasper said. "If you're flailing
around hysterically near something sharp and also near Edward..." He
trailed off as Edward made a small growling noise.

"Then..." I considered, wondering what he thought the obvious
consequence of this situation might be. "Then I'll start bleeding and
smell even more delicious and I'm a snack?"

"Right," said Jasper. "You'd want me to calm you down then."

"I'd want to *be calm* then," I said. "But not to be *made calm*. The
reason I'm asking you to leave *my* emotions alone, instead of telling
you to stay away from my friends and whatnot, is that I can deal with my
own and most people can't. If I start flailing hysterically near
something sharp and also near Edward, you can warn me that hysteria is
dangerous to me at that time. You know, using words. I do *have* a
self-preservation instinct; I would not *choose* to be hysterical if it
would likely get me killed. Although," I said, turning back to Edward,
"it may be that *you* should avoid simultaneously being around *me* and
sharp objects."

"Edward *is* a sharp object," rumbled Emmett. He looked a lot more
lighthearted than the other vampires.

"Point," I acknowledged. "Uh, no pun intended. But anyway, Alice, you
see me being a vampire, definitely, not a corpse?"

"Yes," she said, "but even a very solid vision can change, if someone
makes an unlikely decision."

"So it is something to be sure I'm sane about, but not something to
rearrange my life over," I decided. "I wear a seatbelt; but I don't walk
to school."

The vampires actually looked confused by my analogy. "Car accidents are
a fairly common cause of death among us fragile folk," I reminded them,
and comprehension dawned. Of course. If a vampire got in a car accident
the worst case scenario -- the only scenario worth worrying about -- would
be catching fire, and comparatively few accidents had that feature, in
spite of cinematic embellishment making it look like cars were just
*begging* to burst into flames on impact.

"Anyway," I said. "I find myself pretty much taking what Alice said at
face value, given the available snippets of evidence. However, as she
predicted, I would like a little more proof. I've got a list. Two tests
require somebody other than Edward or Alice to be valid tests of the
things I'm looking for, and one is specifically of Edward. Can't compel
participation, but I would appreciate it."

"What've you got?" asked Emmett. I took out my notebook, tore out the
page, and handed it to the large vampire. Edward leaned slightly to look
at it.

"We're all going to do them except Rosalie," reported Alice. Rosalie
sniffed.

"Aw, Rose," said Emmett. "Don't want to pick up a tree?"

"Or even let Bella admire you in the sun?" asked Edward in a low voice.

"No," said Rosalie, "I don't. You don't need me anyway; the four of you
can satisfy her curiosity doing whatever tricks she likes if that's how
you want to spend your afternoon."

"And Carlisle and Esme," added Alice. "They'll be there. But not this
afternoon. We're doing it Thursday. There'll be a little sun around four
p.m."

Rosalie snorted and Emmett rolled his eyes. I had a moment of unkind
speculation about the depth of that relationship. But for all I knew
they'd been together for seven hundred years and there were vast reams
of subtext I couldn't detect; at any rate, I had no reason to act on
information about their love lives, so it didn't bear investigation.
"Tomorrow?" I said. "I guess that works; I need to study for trig with
Jessica this afternoon."

Alice nodded. With the important orders of business out of the way I
took a bite of my macaroni and cheese, then started peeling my orange.
The macaroni had flecks of bacon in it. I wondered if vampire taste
sensations were anything like human ones -- I'd have to ask a non-Alice
vampire about that. It would be sad to give up normal food.

* * * * *

Lunch ended, and I -- flanked by Edward -- caught up with Angela and Mike.
Mike gave Edward an annoyed look, which Edward responded to with a
tight-lipped smile and narrowed eyes. None of us talked on the way, but
I suspected we all had different reasons: Angela didn't mind silence,
Mike didn't want to talk to Edward, Edward didn't want to talk to humans
who weren't me, and I knew all of that and didn't want to oblige anyone
to talk. We arrived at Biology and went to our respective seats.

The class was, as usual, something I'd done before -- the syllabus
indicated we'd get to some fresh material in the next unit, which I
hoped would be interesting, because Biology was increasingly tiresome as
we went over more and more that I already knew. It occurred to me to
wonder why the vampires were in high school. They moved a lot -- did they
have to repeat high school over and over again? Or did they just do this
occasionally, and at other times spend their days pretending to
"homeschool" and secretly pursuing whatever interested them?

The latter would make more sense. I could see attending high school anew
once every thirty years or so to get an update on the state of education
-- they would always need to be able to pull off having attended high
school *recently* -- but even if that was the goal, it would make more
sense to go to college repeatedly and at least choose a different major
each time. There was no reason the vampires couldn't pass as youthful
college students, especially at a large, prestigious school that would
tend to attract prodigies. Maybe they liked continuity more than I would
have guessed, and preferred to segue into college with genuine secondary
school histories. (Living as they did there had to be a source of forged
records, of course, but they might not use them for absolutely
everything.)

While the teacher talked about ribosomes I started speculating
pointlessly on what sort of knowledge they must have acquired over their
lives. Alice had hinted at knowing Korean. I couldn't think of any other
clues, so I made things up to entertain myself, fabricating long lists
of languages they'd speak and cities they'd explored and skills they had
mastered and books they'd read and performances they'd attended -- there
was so much to *do* with life as soon as you took a few of the bars off
the cage.

The thought of how much time would be freed up by the mere lack of a
need for sleep was staggering. Not only the time spent sleeping, but
also the time preparing for sleep, waking up from sleep, ensuring the
comfort of the place in which one might sleep, managing threats to the
peaceful environment such that one might sleep, and dealing with the
interruption to any long-term pursuits due to sleep. That, and there was
little to no risk attached to anything they could do that didn't call
for sunbathing. No reason not to skydive.

I was warming up considerably to the idea of joining their ranks. Three
days of "not fun", a loss of my love of bacon, and the introduction of a
temptation to slurp up the fluids of those around me notwithstanding, I
wanted immortality and *real* twenty-four-hour days.

Matchmaking
===========

Edward gave me a vaguely meaningful look, catching my eye as I left the
biology room to go to gym. I wasn't sure what the meaning was supposed
to be -- perhaps if it was important he'd find me after school. As Mike
and I walked towards our final class, it looked like his brain was
chewing on itself -- I didn't envy him a bit -- but he still didn't say
anything. I decided that it was a priority to politely deflect him. I
wasn't actually sure how reliable the vampires were about not eating
people, especially since Alice had been worried, and goodness only knew
how Edward would react to whatever he caught of ongoing teenage boy
thoughts from Mike about a mutual crush.

Maybe I could set Mike up with someone else. If he liked me, that was
some clue about his type -- slender but without any visible athleticism,
brown-haired, brown-eyed, symmetrical-ish but not particularly striking,
that was me. I thought about the girls who sat with the group at lunch.
Jessica seemed plausible; she was dark like me, little and cute and
fairly popular. I didn't see them settling down and having five kids,
but it wasn't hard to picture them going to watch a movie. I'd try to
suggest him to her discreetly while we studied trig.

Eric was less obvious. While I started my yoga, I paired him in my head
with others. There was Angela, but she'd made vague murmurs about liking
some unidentified boy, and I didn't think from how she described him
that it was anyone I'd met (even after I corrected for the fact that he
was being described by a girl who liked him). I supposed Lauren might
work, although I wasn't sure Eric deserved her -- he was fairly nice, and
Lauren was the least pleasant individual I'd yet encountered in Forks
unless I made very broad inferences from what I'd seen of Rosalie. But
she *was* pretty -- had a sort of haughty class to her bearing and
well-proportioned features. Her coloring wasn't like mine, at the
moment, but she dyed her hair different colors from time to time and
with any luck I could time my attempt for a week when she went dark. I
wasn't sure if she'd have him, but she complained enough about being
single.

I felt a little guilty about planning all this matchmaking more for my
covenience than for the happiness of its objects. Upon noticing this
guilt, I also noted that my brain was trying to rearrange its
estimations of the couple quality to justify it: *Jessica and Mike would
be cute together,* said my brain, *it's not like they couldn't work out,
they're already friends, aren't they? Jessica didn't mention him in her
list of top ten boys she wouldn't touch with a ten foot pole... And
maybe Lauren is only girl-mean, and would be nice to a boy like Eric...*

I entered my next pose too fast, yanked something in my leg that wasn't
meant to be yanked, and promptly moved to a more comfortable sitting
posture to massage the discomfort away. Mike jogged over after
perfunctorily soliciting teacher permission. "Are you okay, Bella?" he
asked.

"Yeah," I said. "Nothing broken, nothing dislocated, just an unhappy
leg."

"You're sure? Do you want me to help you to the nurse?"

"If you could tell the teacher I'm going to just sit for the rest of
class, that would be great," I told him, "but I don't think I need
medical help -- it'll be okay by the bell."

Mike nodded obediently and trotted off. He reminded me a little of a
golden retriever.

*He'll only be less happy if you let him simmer in his crush like this,*
said my brain. *It's in his own best interest for you to send him away,
and as long as he hasn't said anything yet, it would only be needlessly
hurtful to address it directly. Set him up with Jessica for his own
good.*

I shook my head to myself, just a little, to put my next thought out
into the world where it couldn't reshape itself like fog. (Taking out a
notebook during gym might have made the teacher suspicious about my
leg.) That wasn't why I wanted to put Jessica and Mike together. Even if
it was true, it wasn't why I wanted to do it. Even if it contributed,
and made me want to do it more than I would have, it wasn't necessary or
sufficient. I had no doubt that if I'd wanted Mike for myself, I'd never
have dreamed about sending Jessica after him because they'd be cute. I
was sure that if Mike hadn't liked me, but had instead been pining after
someone else implausible like Rosalie, I wouldn't have bothered with
juggling his love life to make sure he wasn't marinating in unrequited
attraction. I just didn't want his attention, and so I was trying to
send it somewhere else. I refused to lie to myself about the nobility of
the decision, even as it firmed up on my list of plans.

*What sort of person am I?* It didn't matter if I could make up
flattering reasons for my choices. They had to be the *actual* reasons I
made those choices, or they simply *didn't answer that question*. If I'd
let myself believe the pretty justifications for it all, went along with
the self-aggrandizing delusion, I'd be mistaken about the one topic I
most adamantly refused to be mistaken about:

Inside Bella Swan's skull, who's driving this thing?

* * * * *

Edward caught up with me on my way to my truck. I limped only a little,
and he didn't comment on it -- I speculated that he'd seen the event
through Mike's eyes and didn't want to let any evidence of that slip.
"Jessica's forgotten that she's supposed to call you," he told me. That
put a ding in my speculation. Maybe he'd seen the event and noticed that
I didn't want help.

"I guess I'd better call her, then," I said. "Trig is so important for
later life."

Edward chuckled, then grew more serious. "Why did you switch lab
partners?" he asked softly.

"Because the one I was assigned looked at me like I'd recently killed
his puppy, and then wasn't even in school the next day while I was still
getting used to things, and Angela and her previous lab partner didn't
mind the switch," I replied.

"I'm very sorry I looked at you that way," he said sincerely.

"I don't understand why your wanting to have me for dessert would make
you look *angry,*" I said. "Help me figure that one out?"

He grimaced -- he seemed to do that a lot, and it didn't do much to help
his attractiveness, not that he needed help there. "I was angry that you
were... straining my control. That you were making me less the person I
try to be."

"The kind of person who doesn't poke straws into people during school."

"Right. No straws." He laughed ruefully. "It didn't make any sense to
blame you. You didn't do anything. But it felt like you did."

I nodded. "That explains the anger. But before that you were looking at
me weirdly too -- like I was confusing. What was up with that?"

We'd reached my car by this point, and Edward looked pleased -- maybe
that I'd asked another question instead of hopping right in and rumbling
away? "The fact that I can't read your mind," he said. "It's never
happened before -- that I noticed. It actually did take me a while to
pick up on it with you, simply because I wasn't trying until I noticed
that everyone in school was thinking about you. I wanted to know what
all the fuss was about, and... couldn't tell."

I wasn't sure if Alice had told Edward -- or thought near Edward -- that
she'd told me that he liked me. I elected not to bring it up on this
occasion. "I guess mindreading is something you get used to after a
while?"

"I couldn't do it, before," he said. "Carlisle realized what was going
on before I did; I kept replying to his thoughts as though he'd spoken
them aloud."

"Why do some of you have extra powers and some not?" I asked.

"We aren't entirely sure. In my case and Jasper's, at least -- we can
only guess about Alice -- it's similar to strengths we had as humans. I
was very good at reading people. Ironically, now that I have my
abilities to rely on, I think I've deteriorated at reading faces," he
said wryly. "Jasper was a leader, very charismatic -- he could calm a
crowd or rile them up even before he turned."

I nodded. "I'm having a little trouble guessing what would produce
Alice's ability, if your trend isn't just a coincidence. Good pattern
recognition? Extensive physics knowledge?"

Edward shrugged. "I don't know. At any rate, just because Jasper and
Alice and I are the flashiest talents doesn't mean the others don't have
unique abilities. Rosalie kept her beauty. Emmett's the strongest.
Carlisle has an amazing ability to resist blood -- he can practice as a
physician without a trace of discomfort. Esme brought with her the
ability to love passionately."

"When I'm a vampire, will I be able to turn invisible?" I suggested.
"Since I'm mentally invisible now?"

Edward growled a little in the back of his throat. "You don't have to be
a vampire," he said. "Alice's visions are *never* certain. There has to
be a way for you to stay human."

"Two things," I said. "First, there doesn't have to be such a way. The
universe is *allowed* to be the way it is, even if the way it is, is a
way that winds up with me being a vampire. Second, I kind of like the
idea. I'm not sure when a good time will be, but it sure sounds like it
comes with a *lot* of perks."

*"No,"* said Edward. "Bella, any of us would rather be human -"

I started at him incredulously, and he cut off midsentence. "What? Okay,
Alice said that the three day initiation process or whatever it is is
"not fun". I could buy that it is sufficiently not fun that you wish it
hadn't happened to you, don't think it was worth it. It'd be a little
hard to believe, but not impossible. But why in the world would you want
to go *back* once you've already been *through* that part? I don't know
how old the rest of you are, but you realize Alice would be dead by now,
right? Humans *generally* don't live to be a hundred years old. Whatever
it is she misses about being human, *she wouldn't have it anymore
anyway*. And there's nothing to love about being dead."

"Ask Rosalie what she misses," said Edward darkly.

"What will she tell me?" I asked.

"Her answer," he muttered.

I opened my truck door.

"Bella," said Edward coaxingly. I supposed he wanted me to stay.

"Nope," I said. "I don't want to have cryptic conversations. If that's
the only kind you can have right now, I'm going to go home and call
Jessica. See you tomorrow!" I said. I hoped I'd managed to inject enough
cheer into my voice that I didn't sound vengeful. That wasn't the point;
I didn't want to get back at Edward for being mysterious, I just didn't
want to put up with the mystery because it was unpleasant. It would be
nice if eventually he decided to stop being vague and unhelpful around
me, but even if he didn't, I would still get more of what I wanted by
leaving when his remarks took a turn for the uninformative.

* * * * *

Edward didn't try to follow my truck. I parked in the driveway, let
myself into the house, and phoned Jessica. She admitted that the plans
had completely slipped her mind, but agreed that I should come over
after dinner to study. I whipped up a sauce and started marinating the
night's salmon in it. Fish cooked fast enough that it made more sense to
start it after Charlie got home. I set a timer to remind myself to
preheat the oven sufficiently far in advance, then did my homework for
the day.

When I'd finished that, I took out my notebook and preserved my
important insights for the day, notably the bit where I wasn't noble or
generous for trying to set up my friends with each other. My timer rang
while I was in the middle of wondering why Edward wouldn't want me to be
a vampire. There wasn't an obvious motive. If he liked me, he ought to
want me around; even if he thought he'd get sick of me, it wasn't a
given that I had to stick with the Cullens for the rest of my eternal
life. If I was turned, as an added bonus, I would no longer smell like
food and he wouldn't have to constantly fight temptation in order to
have me nearby safely. Perhaps there were some consequences to sanity
that Alice hadn't mentioned, which I hadn't picked up on yet. (Although
in retrospect I thought I had adequate explanations for their behavior,
it didn't escape me that I'd considered Alice and Edward to be possibly
crazy.) It did seem unlikely on the face of it that three solid days of
"not fun", or a sudden inability to recharge with sleep, would have *no*
ill effects. I'd have to inquire a little more carefully. But I shut my
notebook and went to turn the oven on.

Charlie's timing was good: he arrived just as the beep indicating
correct fish-baking temperature sounded. I put tinfoil on a baking sheet
and fish on the tinfoil and the entire thing in the oven while asking
him about his day. Forks did not have much in the way of crime. Charlie
mostly caught speeders, and the occasional out-of-towner hiking buff who
thought it'd be fun to cause trouble while away from home. Accordingly,
his day had been uneventful. When he was done describing it in all its
uneventfulness, I told him that I'd sat with the Cullens and Hales at
lunch -- he seemed happy about that. The ritual exchange of daily
activity information complete, I started to sauté spinach; it went fast,
and I wanted to time it to finish when the salmon did. Charlie turned on
the TV to watch a few minutes of some sporting event until the oven
timer rang.

After we'd finished eating, I called Jessica again to let her know I was
on my way and confirm the best route to her address. It was only five
minutes away, in the next neighborhood over. We studied, and after we'd
reviewed most of the material, I said, "Jessica, thanks so much for
helping me with this. Math's my worst subject apart from gym."

"Thanks," Jessica preened.

"You're a really great person, you know." The compliments sounded weird
in my head. But I knew that was only a fact about my head. Compliments
did not sound weird to the people who received them unless they already
suspected ulterior motives. At any rate, I wasn't lying. Whatever Edward
said, Jessica had reached out to me and provided very valuable
companionship -- and trig help. "I'm lucky to have you as my friend."

Jessica almost purred. "You're a sweetheart, Bella."

"How come you don't have a boyfriend?" I asked innocently.

Jessica pouted. "Nobody's asked me out in... oh, a couple of months."

*Bullseye.* "Who asked you then?"

"Daniel White," she told me. I didn't know him by name, although I
probably would have recognized the face. "But I turned him down."

"Why's that?"

"I dunno, he's too... I don't like his voice," she said. I was pretty
sure that whyever she'd rejected Daniel, she had no idea and was making
this up on the spot.

"Maybe you should ask Mike out," I said. "He's got a pretty nice voice."

"What?" Jessica seemed startled. "Well... I guess he does." Mike sounded
sort of soulful and low when he spoke, like a country singer or
something. Now that Jessica had gone and identified "voice" as a
relevant criterion, this was very likely to work in his favor. "But I
don't ask guys out except when it's the girls' choice dance."

"Huh? Why not?" I asked, feigning confusion. "It's the twenty-first
century."

"Well, yeah, but..." She trailed off, considering. I didn't say anything
for fear of spoiling what I guessed was a useful train of thought. "He
does sound nice, doesn't he?"

I nodded, smiling encouragingly.

"Well, I might, I don't know," she said, tossing her curls. That was
probably the best I was going to get this soon. I nodded again and
pretended sudden distraction by a cosine.

* * * * *

I sat with my human friends at lunch on Thursday, after Alice caught me
at the door and promised to call later about "hanging out". Jessica
didn't ask Mike out, but she did sit next to him and keep up a
conversation that was more with him than the rest of the table.

Angela asked me if I'd seen the rainbow earlier. I had. I was starting
to think that the demos of the vampires' powers planned for after school
were pointless; I already had an awfully strong expectation that they'd
be exactly as Alice had described them, and so I didn't anticipate that
the tests would *teach* me anything the way tests ought. It almost
reminded me of the "experiments" science classes did -- the book would
tell you a procedure to follow, and if you got a different result than
the book said, what that meant was *you set it up wrong*, not that you'd
learned something revolutionary about physics or whatever. I actually
*liked* science, but not repetition -- the things they gave students
didn't even approach the possibility of surprise afforded official
replication studies.

What I *was* looking forward to was getting to the edge of what the
vampires knew about themselves, and joining them in learning more fine
details. Maybe they had a combined age of many centuries, but there was
a vast hypothesis-space, and I didn't have reason to guess that any of
them had unusually experimental dispositions. For example, I would have
been willing to bet money that they'd never checked whether Edward's
range was affected by magnets or whether Alice could be thrown off by
someone who kept being distracted while trying to make a decision.

I wondered, briefly, if Jasper's power would work on me even if he tried
it. I was uncommonly good at moderating my own emotions. If he tried to
calm me when I *chose* to be angry -- or, more likely given the
circumstances such a trial would take place in, when I chose to be
*really creeped out* -- how well would it function? If he really only
affected non-mental things, I might be just as susceptible as anyone.
But I was skeptical that purely physical intervention could exert as
much fine control as the vampires had hinted he had. Also, I had the
impression that his power worked on vampires too. They didn't have
heartbeats to change -- what *was* he messing with, when he adjusted
vampire moods?

Why couldn't Edward read me? How far ahead could Alice see? In what
ways, if any, were her visions useful even when they depicted futures
that wouldn't be? What powers would *I* have as a vampire? Did vampires
ever have duplicate special powers? What others were there in the world?
Did their standard-issue abilities like strength and speed vary much?
(Edward had said Emmett was the strongest of the family, but not by how
much or how common variations like that were.) How did eating humans as
opposed to not affect their psychology, their physiology, their powers?
How did turning work? Why did their eyes change color? What made them
all so pretty? How did they manage to be flexible without shedding rock
dust everywhere, with their skin the way it was? Did their hair grow?
What were the social customs of vampires in general, and how did the
family I knew differ? How had the Volturi come to be in charge and who
worked with them? Why would humans smell more appealing than other
species -- what was it about our blood?

There was so much to *wonder* about. Sitting in Biology instead of
racing out with a truckload of notebooks and investigating vampires for
a sleepless week straight was like forcing myself not to scratch a
terrible itch when I had perfectly good fingernails. I took the risk of
pulling out the notebook I had on me and writing down my questions,
which helped a little; at least none of them would get lost, and when I
had the chance, I could follow up on them. Angela didn't seem curious,
but Edward must have heard my pencil scratching and been able to tell it
was me, because he swiveled around to look. He took in the picture of me
and my notebook in a swift glance, then turned around again.

Biology came to a merciful end. I tried not to think of more questions
about vampires during gym, given the increased suspiciousness and
physical awkardness of notebook use from Child Pose. I was partially
successful: I dreamed up only variations and extrapolations of the
questions I'd already written down, which I expected to reconstruct when
I next looked at my notes even if they slipped my mind first. When gym
ended, I paused to scribble down useful keywords like "koinophilia??"
and "evolution?!" and "(& fingernails)", then proceeded out the door to
head for my truck.

* * * * *

Edward caught up with me again; I sensed a pattern in the making.
"Hello, Bella," he said.

"Hello, Edward," I replied.

"What do you write in your notebooks?" he asked.

"I make a habit of not sharing that information," I said.

"Hmm," he said. "Why shouldn't I walk away because you're being
cryptic?"

"Go ahead, if you like," I said, shrugging. "I want not to tell you
about my notebooks more than I want to talk to you. I'm going to see you
again in like an hour for the are-you-guys-kidding-me check, unless
Alice was mistaken."

He didn't seem to like this answer, so I continued, "Besides, I didn't
say, 'Hey, Edward, you should make a decision based on something I wrote
in my notebook', and then refuse to tell you what I'd written. Whereas
you apparently think I should find something about Rosalie informative
to what I choose to do with my life, but won't tell me what it is -- and
you *didn't* justify this with something like Rosalie preferring you not
share her personal information with me."

"She probably would," he said.

"Then you shouldn't tell me her personal information. It might even be
why you *didn't* tell me, for all I know. But you didn't say so then.
And if you knew you weren't going to tell me, there was no reason to
bring it up. There might have been a reason to talk to Rosalie, and ask
*her* to talk to me, or for permission to tell me yourself. But no
reason to mention that the information *exists* if you won't give it to
me and aren't even sure I can get it from the right source."

He looked a little nonplussed. "I'm sorry."

"I accept your apology." We arrived at my truck. I opened the door.

"Leaving again?" he said.

"I don't know how long to expect to be doing science to you guys, so I
want to get home and make sure my dad will come home to a sandwich. I
suppose if you want to you could join me, since we're headed to the same
place later." I shrugged again. I was trying to look nonchalant, but I
was starting to be a bit uncomfortable with the fact that Edward had a
crush on me. It would be so *complicated*, at least until I was a
vampire. In no small part, this was because he craved my blood: he could
apparently keep the craving under control in normal social
circumstances, but I didn't know how his restraint would hold up with
significant physical contact.

And if -- after I did a lot more thinking -- I decided I wasn't
interested, I wasn't sure if I would be able to get rid of him.

He got into the passenger seat while I tried to conceal the alarm this
notion yielded. I pulled out of the parking lot and onto the highway,
trying to postpone further consideration until I wasn't in control of a
moving vehicle. It would be much safer to wonder if I was free to make a
choice while holding a jar of mustard instead.

* * * * *

I did not get us -- well, myself -- killed on the way to my house. Edward
complained about my obedience to the speed limit; I didn't talk. He
followed me into my house and took a chair while I busied myself with
sandwich ingredients.

I had no ability whatsoever to act in self-defense if Edward, or any
vampire, decided physical confrontation was in order. It would be a less
even fight than me versus a housefly: those things were hard to catch.
The vampires were all so much faster than me that I'd be about as hard
to hit as the side of a barn. This would be true even if I were not the
reigning champion of the World Clumsiness Cup. It did not only apply to
situations in which a vampire decided to kill me: I was just as
vulnerable to any scenario in which one decided to restrict my movement,
injure me, take my belongings, or otherwise help him or herself to
anything whatever.

Assembling Charlie's sandwich was calming, and I started making a second
one when I was done with the first, half for that reason and half
because I knew he could probably eat two. With a slightly cleared head,
I reasoned to myself that I was actually in more or less this position
with most humans, too. I *was* World Clumsiness Champ, not particularly
strong, or fast, or able to walk across flat and stable surfaces. I did
not have any reason to expect to walk away triumphant if, say, Mike or
Eric decided that they wanted to fight me.

I started making a third sandwich, to wrap up and take with me for
dinner, on the assumption that the vampires wouldn't have any normal
food. *I* was vampire food. If a "regular" vampire saw me hanging out
with Edward, they'd assume he wanted his supper kept warm for later and
that was the only reason I had a pulse. And this fact made Edward more
dangerous than Mike or Eric.

Other facts that made Edward more dangerous were his unaccountability,
his undeflectability, and -- ironically -- the fact that I wasn't sure I
*didn't* want him back. He was unaccountable because, if something went
pear-shaped and I went home, telling Charlie would accomplish nothing:
my father was as vulnerable as I -- this wasn't true of any human, at
least not predictably. He was undeflectable because he could read minds:
if I'd tried to send Jessica after him (ignoring for thought experiment
purposes that I was pretty sure she'd tried herself and been turned
away) he'd see that in her thoughts as soon as she made her first
insinuation, and realize what was going on.

And because I couldn't say for sure that I wasn't interested and wanted
him gone, I didn't *want* to do something drastic like skip town in the
middle of the night and move to Thailand. That might protect me from all
the nasty dangers associated with being a vampire's object of affection;
I suspected it would at least make me *hard* to follow, albeit perhaps
not impossible with enough money and magic. It might make me not worth
pursuit, if I did a good enough job of it. But I couldn't avoid those
dangers while keeping the perks.

* * * * *

"Think you've made enough sandwiches?" he said wryly from his chair in
that honeyed voice. I looked at my hands and noticed that I'd absently
taken a fourth pair of bread slices.

"Oops," I said, putting the bread back. "Yes, I've made enough." I put
Charlie's two sandwiches on a plate under plastic wrap in the fridge,
then bagged the third and put it in my knapsack. "I suppose we can go to
your place now and meet up with your family."

"Not yet," he said. "Carlisle will be at work for a bit longer, and
wanted to meet you before we started. We'll be there in plenty of time
if we leave in half an hour, even obeying the speed limit." He made a
scoffing noise with the last phrase.

"You do know my father's a cop," I pointed out, sitting down.

"Yes, I know. I seem to recall that you wear a seatbelt, too," he said.

"I'm beginning to think that I wouldn't be very happy about it if I let
you drive me anywhere," I said.

"I'm probably a safer driver than you," he challenged. "More experience,
better reflexes."

"And a worse collision if you do crash," I said, "if you go at a hundred
and fifty miles an hour. This is beginning to be the sort of argument
that can only be settled with math, though, and I'm saving my tolerance
for math up for trig homework later."

"I should probably take us to my family's home, though," he said.

"Are you going to go a hundred and fifty miles an hour? Given that Alice
sees me not-dead, I think I'd rather accept whatever additional risks
are associated with me driving than experience the terror."

"If you think you're immortal already, why would you be terrified?" he
asked, sounding unhappy -- still about the fact that I expected to be a
vampire, or about the shallower present issue? I couldn't tell.

"I'm not entirely perfect about only having emotions that make sense," I
said. "Anyway, I *prefer* not to travel at a hundred and fifty miles an
hour in a car whether it is actually dangerous to me or not. I prefer
not to do things that would scandalize Charlie; I prefer not to do
things that would make onlookers believe themselves to be in danger; and
I kind of like the scenery around here. The fact that I would be
terrified to travel at a hundred and fifty miles an hour makes me more
effective at arranging not to so travel by automatically reminding me to
slow down if the speedometer drifts too far right, which means that
keeping the fear makes me better at getting what I want."

This speech appeared to leave Edward nonplussed again. "You're an
extraordinary person, Bella," he said after a silence.

"Thank you." Renée was always insistent that compliments were gifts to
be accepted and that it was rude to turn them down, however silly they
were; I agreed and made a consistent effort to put the theory into
practice. I'd gotten over the fact that I had a lot in common with my
parents when I was fifteen. There were well-established and robust
mechanisms ensuring that I'd resemble them, and when I wasn't in the
middle of a fit of teenage angst, I loved my parents and knew there were
lots of worse people to take after in the world. This didn't mean I
didn't work on excising their worse qualities -- Renée had a flightiness
that I consciously opposed in myself, for example, although I had so
little trouble doing so that I thought perhaps I just took after Charlie
in that department. (He was a steady, responsible sort.)

"You're welcome." There was another silence. I wondered if it was
challenging to talk to Edward just because I knew that he liked me and
he didn't know that I knew (I thought). It was good for other reasons
that he hadn't spit it out, though, for the same reason that it was good
that Mike and Eric were silent on their analogous issues; it gave me
more time to think.

He was too *gorgeous*. That was the word Jessica had chosen when I'd
first asked her about the Cullens, and that was precisely the right one,
although it had many equally serviceable relatives such as *beautiful*
and *yummy*. I'd noticed that much even back when I thought he hated me;
it would have been hard to miss. He had a voice to match. I'd only be
deluding myself if I tried to pretend that it didn't make my eyebrows
jump a little when I'd noticed he was rich.

Yes, yes, shallowness ahoy, but it mattered more to be *correct* than to
pretend myself deep. If I tried to convince myself that I found Edward
interesting for *deep* reasons, it would lead down a path of feedback
loops and foolish reasoning that *could* literally kill me. I would be
more likely to take stupid risks with Edward if I fancied myself up to
my eyebrows in transcendent romantic adoration. I would be less likely
to behave like an idiot around him if I recognized that he was a hot
(well, cold), rich guy who sounded like an angel and had sexy
superpowers and that these things were not irrelevant to me.

Taking a step back from all of these admittedly relevant facts, I turned
to more practical thoughts: none of the qualities on that list were
unique to Edward. The combination wasn't unique to Edward. The
combination wasn't even unique to Edward *among people I knew*, although
his brothers were both taken and neither similarly approximated what I
considered my "type" except for the fact that I'd never dated. Edward
was not the only person interested in me, even as of the previous week
and a half. If he had other, rarer personal traits that would also
appeal to me, I didn't know about them yet.

At any rate, there was simply no call to rush anything. We were both
going to live forever. And once I was a vampire, too, I'd be better able
to separate the part where maybe I wanted Edward from the part where
maybe I didn't have any other choice.

* * * * *

"Time to go," Edward said after a very, very long conversational lull.

"Alice said she'd call," I pointed out.

Edward grinned. "I'm the phone," he said.

Oh. "I see. You can drive if you promise not to speed."

"I actually thought we'd go on foot. It would be hard to get your truck
to the spot Alice sees us at, so we couldn't drive all the way there
anyway."

"I don't actually know how far away your house is -" I began, thinking
to protest on behalf of my knees and feet and other parts easily made
sore and inspired to rebellion.

"Too far for you to walk," cut in Edward, and I made a small huffing
noise, but he *was* telling me something I wanted to know, and I could
always inform him later that he shouldn't interrupt me. "At least if you
wanted to get there today. I'll take you."

"You propose to *carry* me a distance of several miles," I said
skeptically. Of course he could physically lift something of my size and
run that far. But could he carry *me* like that -- picking me up and
hauling me around, putting me awfully near his nose -- without wanting to
take a bite just a bit too much? It didn't sound very comfortable,
either.

"I'm faster than your truck, Charlie would be as scandalized as could be
if he knew that you're associating with vampires anyway and it won't get
any worse if you let me cart you around, I can avoid any easily
frightened onlookers, running very fast is not illegal, and the scenery
at our destination is nicer than anything you'd see from the highway,"
he said, smiling patiently. "Besides, then we can skip the part of the
tests where you have to find a good vantage point to watch us run an
interesting distance."

These things were likely all true. "Are you sure that this won't make me
extra likely to arrive needing a visit to the Red Cross's juice and
cookies table?"

It took him a moment to piece that together, and then he looked solemn.
"I *won't* hurt you, Bella," he said softly.

I closed my eyes, screening off some distracting and irrelevant input
about the color of his eyes (gold, still). "I am aware that you do not
*prefer* to hurt me, that you know it would be wrong to hurt me, and
that you will try not to hurt me. I'm also aware that when I was seven I
did not prefer to steal, and knew it was wrong, and tried not to, and
still wound up with Renée's bake sale contribution half on my face and
half in my stomach, because chocolate is very delicious. And I'm aware
that you find me *very delicious*."

I opened my eyes again. Edward was looking at me sadly, hurt by my
mistrust. "Alice doesn't see you dead," he reminded me.

I frowned to myself, retrieved Alice's weather predictions from my
pocket, and confirmed that it was misting just like she'd said to expect
for this thirty-four minute period of Thursday afternoon. I folded up
the paper again and put it away. "So I'm given to understand."

"Is there anything else I can do to help you feel safe?" he asked.

This was a fair question. And the obvious answer, *don't eat me*, was
silly: if he ate me, I would not be afraid anymore. "Let me think," I
requested, and he nodded.

I thought. Edward already knew about the notebooks, so I supposed I
could write without giving up information I wanted to keep to myself,
but decided against it. First, it would be a poor choice to needlessly
tease him with the fact that the notebooks were for my eyes only.
Second, I'd heard of a trick where even a human could guess what was
being written: one gave someone a big squeaky marker, looked away, and
told them to write a number from one to ten, and listened for duration
and number of strokes of the pen. It was a lot better than chance, and I
guessed that vampire hearing could probably distinguish all the letters
of the alphabet if the vampire in question cared to try. One trait I did
not ascribe to Edward was the tendency to scrupulously avoid picking up
on information that was available to him.

"How often do humans smell extra tasty to vampires in general?" I asked.

"Not often. You're the only one, for me -- I've been a vampire since
1918," he supplied as I opened my mouth to ask. "Emmett says it's...
happened... to him twice, since turning in 1935. One stronger than the
other. No one else I know. But," he added reluctantly, "neither of
Emmett's were as strong as you."

"Did Emmett eat his two?" I asked baldly, and Edward nodded slightly,
frowning and not looking at me. "And have you, Edward, personally ever
eaten a human?" I was actually not sure what the answer to this would
be. If Emmett belonged to the family and had eaten at least two people,
Edward could too; clearly they did not eject relatives for small lapses
like murder.

He hesitated. Just a little too long.

"I'm going to drive," I said. "Alice or someone else can meet us and
carry me over the tricky section." And I got up and stalked towards my
car.

Vampires 101
============

There was no point in hating, resenting, or even shouting at Edward, or
Emmett, or any other Cullen family vampires who had slipped up in the
past. It would not bring any victims back to life. To the extent that
any of them thought much of my opinion, they could guess it. Adding
strident yelling wouldn't be a significantly greater deterrent. And I
didn't even know if it was *reasonable* to expect perfect behavior from
vampires. How many were there in the world? It didn't matter very much.
"Most" vampires ate humans. And all vampires were made *from* humans,
most of whom were not actionably inclined to murder. Something about the
transition -- something I didn't know much about -- turned humans into
blood-drinking killers most of the time, and the Cullens, plus their
friends from Denali, were doing their best to avoid it. They could not
be turned back into a less bloodthirsty species. All that was left was
damage control. I took a quick assessment of myself and determined that
even if I'd had the ability, I hadn't the stomach to do the family in to
protect future victims of unknown number.

There *was* a point in seriously assessing whatever factor made it
happen, and determining whether or not I could handle it, before *I*
turned in my mortality. I had to ask them about that. I considered
starting with Edward, but it would be too awkward -- Alice seemed safer
to start with.

Edward obliged me with details anyway after we'd been on the road for a
minute. "Left up here," he murmured. "It wasn't... *as* bad as you might
be thinking," he said.

"I didn't have a specific body count in mind," I said levelly. "Was it
just one?"

"No," he said. "No, it wasn't. But -- I know you don't like that I can
read minds, but I can, and that let me be selective in some ways." I
made a skeptical face, although I didn't take my eyes off the road.
Edward continued. "When Carlisle turned me, at first, of course I could
read him. His perfect sincerity. I understood immediately why he lived
the way he did. It was hard, but for almost a decade I had a perfect
record. And then I decided -- I'm not going to pretend to you that I
snapped and in a fit of passion did what I did. I decided to experiment
with a different way of life. But I was selective, like I said. I went
to big cities, found some truly evil people. I told myself that if I
happend to run across a murderer stalking a girl down an alley, and I
saved her, then surely, I wasn't so terrible. It was only a
rationalization. I'm still a murderer. But..." He paused, awaiting my
reaction.

"Oh," I breathed. That was... that was better. He seemed to think it was
*worse* that it had been a conscious choice instead of a moment of
failed control. I didn't agree. This was partly because it made me
safer. If he decided to eat humans again, well, I was a little more
*appealing* than some potential victims, but I was appealing in an
impulse way more than in a deliberative way. If I wasn't in a room with
him, and he mulled to himself that he really preferred to go back to
munching humans, it would be more likely that he'd hie himself off to
another big city, find another suitably depraved victim, and eat them
instead. He knew I had family -- in particular, Charlie could make things
inconvenient; even a dead cop who went abruptly missing or
dead-with-no-blood-left could get the attention of other police. And I
suspected that Alice would be at least annoyed with him if he ate me.

So I was likely to be safer from him than I'd thought. It would still be
foolish to tempt impulse too rashly. For example, I still did not think
it would make sense to have him carry me at high speed when the wind
would waft extra-concentrated Essence of Bella right into his lungs.

"So after a little under five years of that," said Edward guiltily, "I
went home to Carlisle and Esme. They welcomed me back with open arms.
Like the prodigal son. It was far more than I deserved."

"That actually makes me feel considerably safer," I said honestly. I was
about to ask why he didn't make a habit of going on with the Batman
routine sans complimentary beverages -- at night, perhaps, when he didn't
have to sleep and for the thematic appropriateness -- but then I
realized. That would be conspicuous. To *eat* humans was fine, and the
Volturi apparently cared not a whit for selection algorithm. To tie them
up and deposit them unbloodied with lists of their crimes pinned to
their shirts, at the doorstep of the local police department... would
probably put a dent in the collective vampire artifice.

Edward looked bewildered. I clarified: "I feel safer in comparison to
when I didn't know the details. Not in comparison to when I didn't
realize you'd killed anybody at all."

"You're a very puzzling girl, Bella Swan," Edward muttered. "Take this
exit. Must you drive so slowly?"

I was going precisely the speed limit. "I don't think my truck could
take much more, honestly," I said. "Perhaps I should have let you drive,
given that -- since you do have the better reflexes between the two of
us."

"I think that would be worse. I like to drive fast," said Edward,
grinning slightly. "It's not quite as awful to be driven slowly as it
would be to drive this pokey thing myself."

"All right, then I'm the designated driver," I said.

"Next time you should just let me run you there."

I wasn't aware of plans for a next time, but I supposed the way things
were going I'd visit the vampires again eventually. "I'm not sure you
ought to pick me up, even with the feeling safer bit," I said. "If you
run, that'll just blow my scent in your face unless I ride piggyback --
and I'm not at all confident I could hold on piggyback at high speed."

"Did Alice tell you during Vampires 101 that we don't actually have to
breathe?" asked Edward.

Oh, that was interesting. "You don't breathe?"

"We do," he corrected. "We can smell, which requires breathing, and we
talk, which requires air. But if we don't care to do either of those
things, it won't harm us to simply stop breathing." He paused. "That's
how I managed the first day you came to Biology. As soon as I got ahold
of myself I didn't breathe until the class ended."

"And this wouldn't make it any harder for you to run?"

He shook his head and smiled. "Air isn't fuel to us the same way it is
to humans."

"Perhaps, then, although I have to admit it doesn't sound comfortable."
That part would apply to his siblings just as much, though. "But if you
were doing that we couldn't be having this charming conversation about
how you can do that."

That got an outright laugh, which added charming color to the sentence
"pull in at the big house there". I rolled up the driveway, admiring the
home. It was indeed big. I'd noticed that we'd actually left Forks
proper, having bridged the Calawah River and continuing north through
scarcely marked roads. A good chunk of the drive had been through very
thick forest. I wondered if the vampires had had to clear a lot of trees
to make driving possible. The ride was surprisingly smooth; they
probably didn't care to jostle their pretty car every time they drove to
school. The house itself was a faded white, with graceful architecture,
and when I got out of the truck I noticed that the entire south wall was
one enormous window: just glass. The effect was very striking.

"Do you like it?" asked Edward, shutting the passenger behind him after
he hopped out. I nodded, smiling. "Esme has a fondness for
architecture," he said affectionately.

"She built this house?" I could see it now -- a vampire easily lifting
beams, pushing nails into their proper places by tapping them like piano
keys, cutting glass by stroking it with one of those stony fingers.

"Restored it," Edward said. "She likes to fix up old historical places.
But there's a lot of her in it." He cocked his head slightly. "Here she
comes now," he went on. "Bella, it looks like it's time for you to meet
my parents."

* * * * *

Carlisle and Esme exited their house, closed the doors behind them, and
then -- having no reason to hide their speed -- appeared before us, from
thirty feet away, too quick for me to follow their paths. When they
stopped, Carlisle had an arm around Esme's shoulders and she had one
around his waist; they looked very picturesque indeed.

The good doctor looked like his biggest problem in life was probably
having nurses and patients hit on him. He looked like he was in his
twenties -- his *early* twenties. The only way I could imagine him ever
passing for thirty-five would be by living someplace for fifteen years
and betting on the sheer unbelief of the people around him. He was
blond, his skin the same chalk color as the others, and his eyes were
black -- not gold. I needed to ask what that meant -- it probably wasn't
random. He wore a warm, paternal smile, which he turned on Edward first
before looking at me.

Esme looked a little older, and that probably helped with the
subterfuge, but she was still clearly young and lovely. (Did no one ever
turn octogenarians? Or did the turning process cure wrinkles?) Her hair
was a dark reddish blond -- sort of butterscotch -- and she had
topaz-colored eyes, darker than the golden color on Edward but not as
black as Carlisle's. She was roundish -- not heavy, but huggable-looking
(which I knew wasn't accurate) and several inches shorter than her
husband. Everything about her face -- heart-shaped and every bit as
pretty as Alice's -- made her look motherly; it didn't surprise me that
it was the role she occupied.

"Welcome, Bella," said Esme in a warm, loving voice to match her
appearance. "We're so glad to finally meet you." I felt comfortable at
once -- no Jasperish sorcery, just my lie detectors going completely
quiet as they listened to Esme express that she was pleased to have me
at her home. I smiled back, nearly grinning, and thanked her.

Carlisle extended his hand for me to shake. "It's good of you to come,"
he said. "I understand we'll be demonstrating various features of the
species for you?" He had a kind, soft voice, which I imagined helped
greatly with his bedside manner.

"That's the plan, although I'm beginning to think they're redundant," I
admitted. "I'm pretty sure you're all actually vampires who actually
have superpowers and will be able to pick up any heavy object I happen
to point out to you, plus everything else my list calls for. I mostly
haven't canceled just because you were all led to expect the tests to
happen, and so I don't feel like an idiot in the unlikely event that you
later turn out to be stage magicians with poor circulation."

Carlisle laughed. "It's no trouble," he said, "and it will give us a
chance to get to know you better. Alice has informed us that you're
going to be part of the family."

I wasn't sure if he meant that Alice thought I'd be a vampire, or that
she had recently seen me marrying Edward or something like that -- and
with Edward standing right there, I couldn't ask. So I just smiled back
at him and said, "Where are we headed?"

"The clearing where we play baseball," Edward said. "Emmett, Alice and
Jasper are already there." He paused, and then said, "Esme, would you
carry her?"

I had not expected that. We'd discussed the fact that he didn't need to
breathe -- was there some other reason it was dangerous that he'd only
just thought of? He'd been all for the idea minutes earlier. Esme didn't
look like it made a lot of sense to her either, but she looked to me for
confirmation, and I nodded. She took two steps toward me and then
scooped me up gently in her arms, one behind my back and one under my
knees. It wasn't as uncomfortable as I would have thought, although I
wouldn't have chosen to sit that way while trying to read or otherwise
relax.

Esme looked to Carlisle, who nodded, and the three vampires took off.

* * * * *

Esme was fast. And she didn't even seem to be pushing herself. The
impression I had of her gait was that it resembled a jog more than a
run, even as she moved through the trees so fast that they blurred
around me and wind forced me to close my eyes to the indistinguishable
color. But her strides were very level -- I bobbed up and down a little
bit, but overall found the experience less physically exhilarating than
a typical roller coaster. On a mental level, it was *really* cool that a
vampire was carrying me through the woods at high speed. I'd expected to
be terrified, but Esme was calming. Perhaps that was why Edward had
asked her to be the one to carry me.

After about a minute and a half of gently whizzing along, Esme came to a
halt and I opened my eyes. Carlisle, Edward, and Esme, who was still
holding me, all stood at the edge of a clearing about twice the size of
a baseball stadium. (I had seen one of those up close while Phil had
been attempting to bond with his future stepdaughter.)

Emmett, Alice, and Jasper were already present. Alice skipped up to me,
grinning, and Esme put me down. "I think it would be most impressive if
I were the one to pick something heavy up," Alice said brightly. "Since
I'm smaller than everyone else. Want to go hunting for a good log or do
you just want me to tell you which one you're going to pick?"

I didn't really want to go hunting for a good log. It was wet out, and I
didn't care very much anymore about doing controlled tests. "Lead the
way," I told Alice, and she traipsed back into the forest with me
following. It was difficult to pick my way through the thick
undergrowth, and I was glad I was in unfavorite pants.

The log was a monstrosity. The tree that had died to create it must have
been many times older than me. I gave it a kick; it was sturdy, not
particularly rotted, and didn't budge a bit with the force my human leg
could offer. It was satisfactory. I stepped back -- I thought Alice could
pick up the tree, but I didn't think she could prevent damp debris from
falling off of it as she did, and I didn't care to have to pick it out
of my hair.

Alice sauntered up to the log, found a good spot in the middle to lift
it from, and hefted it high above her head in a single motion. Leaves,
bits of bark, and droplets of moisture rained down around her; she shook
her head back and forth so fast that her face was a blur, shaking off
most of it. Then, just to top it all off, she started doing a little
Celtic-ish dance while carrying the dead tree. It was a reasonably
comical sight. Tiny Alice -- two inches shy of five feet, her limbs a
fraction of the diameter of the log she was holding, leaping about and
kicking the air as though unburdened and also the star of Riverdance. I
laughed, and Alice tossed the tree into the air, swept herself into a
curtsey, and caught it as it fell. Then she swiftly dug a hole in the
dirt with one foot -- I winced on behalf of her shoe -- and *planted* her
log, root end first, in the ground. It sank quite a bit deeper than the
hole should have allowed, and stayed in place once she let go.

My mouth was hanging open by the end of her performance, and Alice
smirked at me. "Cross off test one?" she asked smugly.

I managed to get my jaw closed, and nodded at her. I followed her back
to the clearing. "Edward is fastest," said Alice, "and it's pretty flat
here, so we probably don't need to put you up a tree so you can see."

Wordlessly and with the edge of a smile on his face, Edward walked into
my field of vision, spread his arms as though to simply remark that he
was present, and then spun 180° like a top and was at the far edge of
the field in a moment. Once there, he paused long enough to be visible
and just barely recognizeable, waved, and was back at my side before my
vision had completely refocused.

*"Wow,"* I breathed. I was beginning to think that the only reason Alice
hadn't seen me calling off the "experiments" on account of uncuriosity
halfway through was because they were just that fascinating to watch. I
didn't want to know what would happen, I wanted to *watch* it happen.
With a pang, I realized this made the entire exercise considerably more
like what Rosalie had called it -- "tricks". But Alice had seemed to be
having fun, at least. It was at least possible that they thought it was
amusing to show off to someone who didn't find their abilities
commonplace. At any rate, none of them had complained much about
Rosalie's declining to participate, so I had to conclude that they were
all there of their own free will.

Edward smiled at me. It was somewhat dazzling, and I found that I needed
to check my list of tests to find what was next. It was the vision and
hearing ones -- not as spectacular, but impressive in their own right. I
explained the protocol, and Jasper volunteered silently for the first:
he raced to the opposite edge of the clear spot -- staying in sight --
almost as fast as Edward had done. (I wasn't sure if my impression that
he went slower was due to my having been told that Edward was faster, or
due to Jasper deliberately going under his top speed, or due to my
actually having the ability to detect a difference in vampiric levels of
rapidity over short distances.) I muttered under my breath a series of
digits that I'd invented and memorized earlier: "two, five, two, one,
eight, eight, zero, three, nine, four, two, three, seven, one, five,
six, zero, four. All done."

Jasper zipped up to me, took my list of tests and my pencil deftly from
my hands, and wrote "252188039423715604" next to the third description.
He returned the objects and went to stand next to Alice.

Carlisle obliged me with the vision test, reading from across the field
handwriting so tiny that I could barely make it out with my eye right
next to the paper.

Emmett was Edward's source of information for the mindreading test. The
range of mental hearing was a few miles for familiar "voices" like
Emmett's, if they were being deliberately sought, and so Edward simply
went back to the Cullen house in order to attend to the various things I
showed his brother. As with the other tests of senses, Edward returned
to the group and reproduced everything with perfect fidelity.

"Do vampires," I wondered aloud when I'd heard Edward's verbatim
recital, "have perfect recall? Is that another one of your things?"

"Yes," said Edward, "but only of memories we form as vampires. It's very
hard to hold onto human experiences."

"That must be *nice*," I said with an envious moan, checking off \#5.
"Alice, when can we expect sunshine?"

Alice said serenely, "Right... about... now." As she spoke the last
word, she pivoted and shoved Esme a few feet forward; Esme, though she
looked startled, still kept her footing and managed to look graceful in
her trajectory. It took her right in the middle of a single sunbeam that
broke the clouds overhead.

Esme, posed with perfect stillness once she noticed the sun and realized
what Alice had done, shone with brilliant color. No longer chalk -- she
was crushed diamonds, each speck of her skin throwing light from a
thousand facets. She'd been beautiful. Now she was spectacular. I could
barely take my eyes off her.

Esme looked at me and smiled. "It's a pity Rosalie wasn't here," she
said, as the sunbeam was obscured by encroaching clouds and the gem
sparkle faded. "That's one thing she does like."

I could imagine. It would be implausible to be as gorgeous as Rosalie
without developing at least a little vanity. Edward's comment about
letting me admire her in the sun made more sense now -- I enjoyed a brief
mental image of a golden-haired statue of a goddess showering everything
around her with tiny rainbows.

Yep. I was leaning towards liking the idea of being a vampire again. I
could probably not eat anybody. Vampires were *so cool*.

* * * * *

With all the tests complete, the vampires decided -- too rapidly for me
to have any input -- that it was time for us all to retire to the drier,
more comfortable location of their house. Esme waited for another nod
from me before lifting me into her arms again and taking off after the
group.

She put me down on the porch, which was a wide and well-furnished affair
that wrapped around the entire first floor. I was the last through the
door (Edward held it for my benefit). The entire interior of the house
was done in white: the walls, the carpet, the furniture, almost all the
decor. Little shadows and flecks of color, here and there, stood out
brightly. I'd walked into an enormous, high-ceilinged hall -- it had to
have been several large rooms originally, with walls and floors knocked
out. From the south wall, made entirely of glass, I could see the river
flowing by not far from the building.

On my left, a raised part of floor, just one step up, held a grand
piano. Beyond that, I saw the open door into the kitchen -- I supposed
houses in general came ready-made with kitchens and there was no strong
reason to rip it out of the house, especially if they might sell it and
move later. The dining room was screened off from the front hall with a
low, curving wall, over which I spied a table surrounded by eight
chairs. I supposed it wasn't that odd that they'd have an extra, given
that seven was an odd number and would make the furniture look
asymmetrical arranged around the rectangular table. The vampires all
took off their shoes, which were covered with mud, and I followed suit,
dropping my knapsack next to my sneakers.

I saw a wide, swooping staircase, and looked up. It led to a landing,
visible from the ground floor through its railing, but the halls on
either side were hidden by walls. They wound in a semicircle, leaving
the main hall room for its vaulted, high-beamed ceiling. I'd seen three
stories total from outside, and supposed the rooms on the third floor
were stacked on top of the ones from the second. It looked like they
didn't jut up against the glass wall -- the far point of the staircase,
which extended beyond the horseshoe of higher stories, admitted enough
room for someone to walk between it and the giant window.

"Want a tour?" Edward asked in my ear. Suddenly distracted from my
admiring gaze at the house, I jumped just a little, then tried to cover
it by turning to look at Edward. He seemed to have been enjoying my
appreciation of the architecture.

"All right," I said. After I'd agreed and Edward was gliding towards the
stairs with the expectation that I'd follow, it occurred to me that
invitations like that *might* mean, "Do you have an interest in looking
at this pretty house?", but might *also* mean, "Are you interested in
me, as a person of the opposite sex, such that you are willing to be
conducted around this pretty house by me?" I was not sure which he'd
meant. I still hadn't gotten all the time I needed to think about that.
Why did I have to go to school? Why did school have to assign homework?
Why couldn't Charlie cook to save his life? Why did I have to *sleep*?
The day after tomorrow would be Saturday and I'd have some unclaimed
time, but what if I had to make a decision *before* then about something
I hadn't given enough thought?

I must have had a ridiculous look on my face when I thought this,
because when Edward looked over his shoulder to confirm that I was
following him, he looked concerned. He stopped in his tracks, waiting
for me to catch up. "Bella, are you all right? I know we must be a lot
to get used to..."

"No, I'm fine," I said at once, and I sped up a little to prove it. "It
*is* a lot to handle, but I think I'm adjusting to it okay. Let's see
the house." And I started marching up the stairs.

"Bella," said Edward, catching my shoulder. I stopped and turned around,
and, of course, fell off the step and directly onto him. He caught me
just as before, and set me down on my feet on the ground floor.

"What?" I asked.

"Are you sure you're all right?" he asked.

I thought about this. "I'm sure I don't want to discuss it right now," I
said finally.

Edward looked disappointed. It was really a strange expression on him --
he made it seem more like he was *wronged* than, say, *foiled* or
*unlucky* as some disappointed people appeared. I supposed he wasn't
used to having to wait until people wanted to talk about things before
he got to find out what they were. It probably didn't feel fair, from
his end, but I was grateful in the extreme for my privacy. "What do you
want?" he asked.

"To see the h-" I began. My stomach growled; I looked at my watch, which
identified the time as seven-thirty. "To eat my sandwich,"I corrected,
"and then to see the house later." I went over to my knapsack, pulled
out my wrapped-up dinner, peeled it open and took a big bite.

* * * * *

"You're welcome to have a seat at the dining room table," Edward
invited. I, concerned with the possibility of getting crumbs on the nice
white carpet, went where he directed and sat. He took a chair beside me.
I didn't see any of the other vampires; they must have scattered
elsewhere through the house while I'd been in the middle of blinking or
otherwise paying insufficient attention.

Edward sighed -- this had to be for effect, if vampire breathing was only
for the purpose of speech and smell. "Alice told me a lot about you," he
murmured, "but I'm still constantly surprised."

I looked up from my food. "What did she say?" I hadn't known Alice that
long -- I wasn't sure where she'd have gotten a good read on my
personality unless... Oh, of course. If she felt like it, she could see
how I'd react to all kinds of possible situations, when my tendencies
were consistent enough that I wouldn't deliberate about it too much
before doing something.

"She told me not to interrupt you," said Edward. "I slipped up once
there, and I'm sorry. She told me that if I ever lied to you it would
end badly. She told me that it wasn't safe for you to have secrets kept,
because if you knew something was missing, you'd look for it until
looking got you killed."

I nodded slowly; that all sounded about right -- although if I knew that
a secret would kill me, I thought I could leave well enough alone, I
didn't believe I'd do the same with a secret of unknown hazard. "Alice
is pretty smart," I said.

"She is," laughed Edward wryly. "And she told me to go slowly."

I froze, my partially-finished sandwich halfway through my mouth.
"Well," I quipped, "you were the one who did the speed test."

"That's not what I mean," he said in a low voice.

I hadn't thought it was. Now I knew that he knew that Alice had told me
that -- my head spun. But I still didn't want to talk about it. I needed
to think, I needed to think when Edward wasn't *there* being beautiful
and solicitous and possibly thirsty. "You know," I said, "I have a huge
list of questions about how vampires work. I take it you're going with
Alice's advice on not keeping secrets?"

Edward nodded slowly, keeping his eyes fixed on mine. I broke eye
contact, popped the last bite of my sandwich into my mouth, and crossed
the room to retrieve my notebook. From it, I started reading off
questions. Edward looked frustrated, but did his best to answer them.

* * * * *

He didn't know some of them. He didn't know what it was about vampire
physiology that Jasper controlled; he didn't know why he couldn't read
me; he didn't know whether or not Alice had a time limit (but noted that
he'd never heard of a vision more than a few months in advance); he
didn't know what power I had but suspected it would be related somehow
to my unreadability; he knew the procedure but not the mechanism of
turning.

The things I learned were fewer than I'd hoped. Alice could "get to
know" people through visions of futures that wouldn't happen, because
they displayed their personalities even in such unreliable visions; that
was fairly obvious, and Edward had no less plain applications. Although
exact duplicate powers were unheard of, there were some that were
similar -- for instance, one of the Volturi, a fellow named Aro, was a
mind-reader like Edward, but limited in range to those he physically
touched, and broader in scope to the point of learning "every thought
you've ever had in your life", as Edward put it. (Edward could only read
current surface thoughts, not draw out specific items he wanted to
hear.) Strength and speed in vampires were correlated with the same
abilities in human life, and varied similarly, but with a longer right
tail on the distribution. Eating humans made vampires physically
stronger, but mentally weaker, in the sense that if they did it they
were less likely to be able to resist continuing to do it except
inasmuch as it relieved thirst.

Eye color depended on diet. One that had recently fed on a human had
burgundy-colored ones. Feeding on animals resulted in the gold color I'd
seen more of. With breaks between meals, these colors changed over time.
A hungry vampire had black eyes -- that helped explain why Edward had
been especially perturbed on my first day of school; he'd been without
food for a while. A brand-new vampire's eyes were bright blood red; the
color faded over a year or so, faster with animal blood than human.

Not all vampires were pretty. However, prettiness, like other traits,
was intensified by the turning process -- and vampires looking for
someone to turn *would* preferentially turn attractive humans. This also
explained the spread of ages the Cullens exhibited. (And selection
effects like that helped explain why I would ultimately be a vampire:
empowered as I was to resist Edward's mindreading, I was likely to turn
up an interesting power as one of the undead, and I could easily imagine
vampires picking over the human population looking for talents like
that.) I was a little confused by *Carlisle* having chosen who to turn
on the basis of prettiness, but couldn't think of a polite way to ask --
I'd get individual backstories from each of the others later and try to
put together a pattern myself.

Vampires were made of cells, not rocks, and their strength matched their
rigidity pretty neatly -- vampires felt as malleable to each other as
humans did to other humans. They weren't brittle, just tough, like steel
cables. Accordingly, they bent, as opposed to breaking or grinding
themselves to powder, when they moved around. Vampire hair did grow,
albeit slowly -- it wasn't much different from human hair, and broke
sometimes, so if it didn't grow at all, a vampire Carlisle's age would
necessarily be bald.

It was uncommon for vampires to live in groups that resembled the
Cullens. The theory was that eating animal blood "civilized" them -- the
other family-style assembly of vampires that the Cullens knew about,
their Denali friends, also abstained. (Apparently the in-joke was to
call vampires who didn't eat people "vegetarians".) "Normal" vampires
lived in small groups called "covens" -- two, three, sometimes four. They
were likely to travel a lot rather than settling down and enmeshing
themselves in human civilizations. However, pairing off romantically was
not limited to the Cullens -- a lot of vampires did it.

Edward had never heard of a vampire couple breaking up.

Edward had never heard of a vampire surviving the death of his or her
mate and then finding another one later.

Edward had heard of quite a few vampires.

Oh *yikes*.

I went right to the question about the Volturi, trying not to be too
overt about my reaction to *that*.

The Volturi were a coven of five: three male vampires and the wives of
two. (The third used to have a wife, but she was dead. And, of course,
had not been replaced since then.) The wives were not public figures --
only the males, Aro, Caius, and Marcus, were the active face of the
Volturi. (Aro was not the only one with an extra power; Marcus
apparently "saw" relationships between people.) Edward was fuzzy on
their earlier history, and suggested that I ask Carlisle if curious
about that. The doctor had apparently spent some time among their guard
(a considerably larger extension of the coven, including many vampires
handpicked for promising talents).

Edward speculated that humans smelled tastier than other species because
vampires had been humans in the past and survived most effectively on
the same blood that had sustained their prior existences, but he wasn't
sure.

I took copious notes. There was so much I had to think about and process
already, and I was just adding more. I wondered if it would be best to
forego the tour, but decided that I was already there and ought to have
a look.

* * * * *

The first floor contained the hall I'd seen, the kitchen I'd gotten a
peek at, the piano dais I'd noticed, the dining section I'd sat in, and
also a bathroom, some communal offices for things like household
bookkeeping and investment portfolios, and a seating area around a large
flatscreen television and several computers.

The second floor included the suite Carlisle and Esme shared, with their
studies and Carlisle's library as well as another bathroom. (I was
briefly puzzled about why the vampire bathrooms had shampoo and soap in
them. They were clearly not trying to blend in for surprise visitors, or
they would have included toilet paper. Then I realized that even without
the habits of sweating and shedding skin that we humans had, vampires
could accumulate dirt from their environments at normal rates.) Besides
the suite were Rosalie and Emmett's room, which I didn't get to see as
Rosalie didn't want to be disturbed, and an adjoining pair of rooms
shared by Jasper and Alice.

I noticed along the wall in the hallway floor that there were a lot of
photographs, and paused to look at some of them. I saw a wedding photo --
an old photo -- for Carlisle and Esme. There was also a wedding photo for
Alice and Jasper -- so they were married, then, and not just "together"
as Jessica had artlessly put it. And Rosalie and Emmett had six. In
each, they stood against a different backdrop, and Rosalie wore a
different dress. I wasn't sure why anyone needed to get married six
times, but I suspected that dresses were a motivating factor. Besides
the wedding photos, I also noticed a series of family portraits.
Carlisle and Edward were alone together in the first one -- interesting.
Edward had been earliest. Esme appeared in the next. Rosalie was the
next addition, followed by Emmett. Then, it seemed, Alice and Jasper had
arrived as a pair.

On the top floor was a library -- or Edward called it that; I peeped
inside and saw fewer books than Carlisle had in his personal library.
There were more computers there, and some broad tables accompanied by
chairs. I asked whether it was really much of a library, and Edward
grudgingly told me that it was more like their preferred venue for
document forgery and computer cracking and the like. This didn't faze me
particularly; it was inevitable that they'd need skills and the
wherewithal to pull them off in order to persist unaging in a human
society.

Also on the top floor was Edward's room. It jutted up against the south
wall, and accordingly shared part of the enormous window. It was late
enough to be dark, but I knew in the daylight the view would be
spectacular indeed.

Edward's room had its own closet and bathroom, like Rosalie and
Emmett's. Unlike the entire rest of the house, it wasn't decorated in
white: his carpet was gold, and he'd draped the walls completely over
with darker golden fabric. The only furniture was a black leather sofa,
a desk, and a desk chair. He had his own computer (how many computers
did they need? I'd counted fourteen, and I hadn't even looked in all of
the rooms) and shelves upon shelves of CDs. Apparently, he was a music
buff -- I wondered if he was responsible for the piano in its place of
honor on the ground floor.

"Is that the whole house?" I asked.

"There's a basement, which I can't think of a safe way to get you into,"
he said. "It's meant to be difficult to access if you aren't a vampire.
There's also an outbuilding we converted into a garage."

I didn't have a strong enough interest in cars to want to hike -- or be
carried -- to an outbuilding distant enough that I hadn't seen it. "I'll
skip the garage," I said.

"Very well," said Edward. "What's next?"

"I think I'm about ready to go home," I said. "Charlie might worry."

Edward offered to take me home, and while I knew he could just run back
to the Cullen house and therefore there weren't vehicular logistics
issues, I declined. I wanted to think. I wanted to think without Edward
nearby. I wanted to think alone, secure in my truck where no one could
hear me, as I talked aloud to compensate for the fact that I couldn't
write while driving.

Edward walked me to the door, bade me a polite goodbye accompanied by a
freezing touch to my arm, and watched me as I got behind the wheel and
pulled away from the vampire house.

Charlie was embedded in the couch, watching a sporting event I didn't
bother to identify, when I got home. He yelled his gratitude for the
sandwiches as I ascended the stairs, and I called back that it was no
trouble.

It was late. I had school in the morning. Most of my homework wasn't
done. And I had more "vampire stuff" to work through than I had ever had
of any kind of work all at one time.

I weighed my options, but finally decided that cutting English twice in
so short a time frame would be bad, and I slept.

Edward
======

I hurried through Friday trying as hard as I could to avoid more
*vampire stuff* to process. I stuck to my human friends, finding someone
to walk with between each class and sitting with them at lunch. During
lunch I made homework buddy plans with Angela that involved me driving
her to my house immediately after school. (Angela lived near enough to
walk between school and home, and wouldn't leave a car behind that she'd
have to fetch later.) When I met up with her right after gym, it
successfully deterred Edward from catching up with me (I caught a
glimpse of him in the parking lot, and his expression said that he
certainly *would* have).

Angela hopped into my truck and we rumbled down the highway and to my
house. I fixed us celery sticks and plopped some dip into a bowl, and
then it was several hours solid of homework. At least ostensibly. Angela
subscribed to the "work next to each other" theory of group studying,
and didn't look over my shoulder. I finished everything that was due on
Monday so it wouldn't hang over my head on the weekend. But after that,
I pulled out my personal, non-school notebook, and thought in plain
sight.

I had reasonably strong evidence that vampires "mated for life", so to
speak. I didn't know if they ever engaged in casual
friends-with-benefits arrangements, but from what Edward had said, if
they actually went so far as to fall in love, there they stayed. Alice
had said only that Edward 'liked' me. But she had a strong motive to
avoid spooking me and sending me out of Forks on the next plane. She'd
asked me to promise not to stop speaking to her brother, and she'd
approached me before I'd made any mental threats to go to Charlie about
the family -- she'd approached me at the first available opportunity
after I'd decided to treat Edward's staring as a harrassment issue.
(Well, she had also saved me from Tyler's van, but that was the sort of
thing that would have likely turned up in any future-peeking she did
about me.)

I wasn't sure if this particular aspect of vampirism "worked" with
humans like me. But... If I would be easy for Edward to forget about, if
I were just an arbitrary human who caught his fancy, there was no reason
for the vampires to have any collective interest in me at all. There
would be no reason for Edward to follow Alice's guidelines about what
would set me off. There would be no reason for him to put himself
through the ordeal of being around my super-yummy self. There would be
no reason for his family to trouble themselves to welcome me. There
would be no reason for Alice to see me eventually becoming a vampire. He
would have every motivation in the world to go chew on elephants in
Kenya or otherwise be not-here until I graduated and went off to
college.

If Alice saw me as her future sister-in-law, though... eternally and
vampirically bound to Edward...

Yes, then I could see Edward's family rallying around him, glad that the
odd one out of their number had at last found his eternal bride -- just
add venom. I could see them graciously agreeing to satisfy my
curiosities -- which would have been dismissible at best and a death
sentence at worst for anyone else. I could see Alice focusing on me,
thinking of what I would do if Edward pursued me any of a hundred ways,
coaching him...

I uttered a quiet curse. Angela looked up and I thwacked my trig book in
plausible annoyance. She politely told me that her father was a minister
and she'd be much obliged if I didn't swear at triangles around her,
then looked back at her English essay.

I was suddenly reminded of something I'd written -- at least a year and a
half ago, I thought. That meant it would be in my computer, with my
compiled and archived older thoughts, not in my notebook. I got up and
fetched it; Angela wasn't curious, and I supposed she expected I'd be
typing up my essay.

* * * * *

I tried a few too-generic keywords, searching through my logs and
turning up a lot of redundancy. Finally I typed the phrase "romance
novel", and my word processor took me directly to the correct section. A
little under two years previously, I'd been the beneficiary of my
great-aunt's sudden conversion to Catholicism and her disposal of her
"sinful" book collection. She'd actually given the volumes to Renée, but
Renée left them lying about, and I'd been bored one afternoon.

At a first glance, it was bewildering that women read the things. The
formula, at least of the type my great-aunt had preferred, was not one
that my fifteen-year-old self had found appealing. My first writings
about the novels complained that they all put their heroines in helpless
situations -- often, they were chased by some relentless hero who could
not, if it came down to it, be deterred. My great-aunt had liked fantasy
romances in particular, and it was not at all uncommon for the male
leads to be various types of supernatural creature with unusual mating
habits such that they were committed to attaining the heroine from the
moment they spotted her.

My original notes about this trend were scoffing, contemptuous. I'd
thought the women in those books were all idiotic ninnies for "giving
in". I thought the authors were backwards and sexist for writing
situations like that.

My next relevant entry was about a month and a half afterwards. I'd
happened to acquire the soundtrack to "The Beauty and the Beast" (I had
a soft spot for the story due to name similarities), and noticed that
there was a similar pattern. Belle was, of course, trapped in the
Beast's castle. If she annoyed him, he certainly had the capacity to do
her immense harm, and he frightened her with this power.

What he couldn't do was exercise this option one *iota* more than she
cared to forgive, without sabotaging himself.

Beauty and the Beast was an unusual story of the pattern in that there
was an explicit result the Beast wanted and had to earn by getting Belle
to love him. The romance novels tended to leave that embedded in a way
that was too subtle for me to get at first. In the fairy tale (as retold
by Disney with singing tea services, of course), love was the
prerequisite for the Beast to be debeastified. In the novels, love was
the goal itself.

What Belle and the other heroines had was absolute power over whether
their romantic interests got to win the prizes they were after.

The *only* way the Beast could get what he wanted -- and it wasn't even a
sure thing -- was to throw himself into becoming who *Belle* wanted and
doing what *Belle* wanted. He *needed* her; *she* was merely under his
power. If there had been no time limit, if he could have kept her stuck
in his castle forever, all the roaring and destruction he could bring to
bear wouldn't become any more effective. He couldn't win by coercing her
into saying certain words or performing certain acts; he had to win by
making her feel a certain way.

As a romance trope, where the entire point of the book was for the
couple depicted on the cover art to be together in the end, this pattern
was subject to a certain condition. Specifically, there could not be any
non-personal reason for the heroine to reject her suitor. His
personality was malleable -- she could ask for whatever she liked,
holding all the cards as she did -- but if he happened to be poor or ugly
or otherwise objectionable in some less readily addressable way, the
book would a) make a worse wish-fulfillment story for the target
audience, and b) feel implausible.

It was a very strange feeling, to have landed in a romance novel.

Because unless I was very much mistaken, I had acquired for myself a
vampire who had one chance at love, inexplicably me; who knew that he
could only get what he wanted if I was happy; and who was most
definitely *not* poor, ugly, or otherwise objectionable.

* * * * *

Angela completed her essay, and asked to be driven home. I closed my
laptop and managed to get her to her house without driving us into any
trees, despite my mind's insistence on continuing to reel. I thought I
knew the situation; I just didn't know what I *wanted* out of it, and
that was a very uncomfortable thing to not know.

I drove home alone, frowning at the road.

Charlie had returned from work by the time I pulled into the driveway. I
blew into the house, put a pot of water on the boil, and made spaghetti;
I didn't have the energy for anything complicated. There were meatballs
in the freezer and jars of sauce in the pantry. I threw everything
together once the pasta had cooked, brought Charlie his plate in the
family room, and ate mine at the kitchen table.

Exactly one minute after I'd finished my helping of food, the doorbell
rang.

"I got it," I called to Charlie, and I went to answer the door,
expecting one or another of the vampires. I was right. It was Alice.

"Your future went all *dizzy*," she said, accusation in her voice. She
spoke softly enough that there was no way for Charlie to hear her over
the television. "I have an awful headache. Can I come in?"

"Fine," I said, standing aside. They weren't going to let me think alone
very much, were they? I supposed that was why Alice saw me going
"dizzy". My only plans right now were to make up my mind. But that was
exactly what muddied her visions.

I showed Alice up to my room, and sat on my bed. She took my desk chair,
spun it around to face me, and planted her elbows on her knees.
"Edward's going out of his mind," Alice said baldly.

"You know," I said, "until yesterday I didn't think he knew you'd told
me that he 'liked' me."

Alice winced. "He didn't, until yesterday. I'm usually fairly good at
avoiding thoughts I don't want him to catch. I slipped up."

"I do need *time* to think things through, and make decisions," I
complained. "I don't like to issue snap judgments about anything
important. I have to figure out what I want, and make sure that I
approve of the reasons I have for wanting it, and pick the best way
available to get it, and I prefer to do this in writing, but I don't
like to write too much with anybody around, and so I have to wait until
I'm alone or near somebody who thinks I'm taking some other kind of
notes and won't look. I was going to block out all Saturday to do it.
You couldn't wait?"

"Edward couldn't wait. He *begged* me to talk to you," said Alice.
"Begged. Bella, I think he *would* have given you lots of time, all the
time you wanted, he probably would have told us all to stay away from
you and give you plenty of space, but -- oh, you should have seen him the
day you switched lab partners!" she exclaimed. "He was practically in a
panic. He thought he could take off for a week and you'd be right where
he left you, waiting for *him* to sort *his* thoughts out. But you
didn't. He went back to school and found out that you were trying to get
away from him and couldn't stand it -- you're smart, I know you've
figured this all out, I saw you writing it." She waved a hand.

With a sharp shock, I realized that Alice's power wasn't necessarily
more ethically innocuous than Jasper's or Edward's. "Alice," I started
hotly.

She shook her head, causing her short black hair to fly around. "No.
Sorry to interrupt, but no. Later. Later, we will have that
conversation. Promise. Right now, we will talk about Edward. You figured
it out, you're very smart, be proud of yourself, *please* don't run away
someplace inaccessible just because the situation is horribly awkward."

"Am I allowed to say *anything*, or are you just here to plead for
Edward's sanity?" I asked, perturbed.

"I just want to stick to the topic. You can talk," Alice huffed.

"What do you -- or Edward, or anybody -- expect me to *do*?" I inquired,
spreading my hands helplessly. "Does he really think it's going to
*speed things up* to not give me Saturday to get my head straight?"

"No. I don't think *he* even knows what he wants to happen here. He
thinks I'm going to pick magic words that will magically make you
*magically* decide that you're *magically* in love with him. Jasper was
on edge all through lunch today, picking up Edward's mood when you
didn't sit with us, it was awful." Alice shook her head disgustedly. "I
told him, *I told him*, that he needed to go *slow*."

I took a very deep breath. "What's it *like*?" I asked. My voice came
out soft and earnest where I'd been expecting exasperation -- that was
interesting.

"I don't think I'm typical there," Alice frowned. "I'd been a vampire
for almost twenty-eight years when I started seeing Jasper in my
visions. I knew just what to expect. I waited for him in a diner, and he
showed up, and I walked right up to him and said 'You've been keeping me
waiting a long time,' and he ducked his head like a good Southern
gentleman and said, 'I'm sorry, ma'am.' And then I held out my hand and
he took it and we were... whole. Emmett has a better story," she said.
"I think he'd prefer to tell it himself, though."

"I'm right, then," I said, "that it doesn't matter if I'm a human or a
vampire, it works the same way?"

"It works the same on Edward," Alice said. "You're still human in every
way." She paused. "You know, if you get turned, it *will* work on you.
It'd be very convenient," she pleaded.

"If I get turned? I thought you were sure about that?"

"You were about to figure out the part where as soon as you turn, the
falling in love part is symmetrical," grumbled Alice. "That'd unmake
your mind right there until you figured out Edward, and *that* could go
any which way as far as *I* can see."

"But when I'm turned, I had the impression that there was an adjustment
period. I probably shouldn't do it on a school night, for example," I
said wryly. "I was thinking maybe summer -- I could tell Charlie I'm
going to tour Europe or something while I work on conquering my baser
impulses."

"Well, the adjustment period is usually longer than that," said Alice.
"Although, when I *did* see you crystal-clear as a vampire, you had
newborn colored eyes and there were a couple of images of you being
around humans. Carlisle thinks you might adjust better because you're
expecting to be turned, can go in a little prepared, and none of us
were. So a summer might work for you -- but you might need a backup story
about having suddenly been accepted to early college somewhere."

"But upon being turned, I'll be just as smitten with Edward as he is
with me?" I asked.

"Right," said Alice. "I mean, if not before -- but yes, at least by
then."

I drew my knees up to my chest and rested my chin on them. "I don't know
what to think about that."

"I *know*," grumbled Alice. "It's making my head hurt to keep looking at
it."

"I'm sorry," I mumbled. I liked Alice, and didn't want to give her
headaches, but I didn't see how I could think any faster.

"I saw you and Edward together after you turned," cooed Alice coaxingly.
"You looked so happy. I saw Jasper following you around all the time,
just to soak it up, he likes to be around happy people."

I turned my face down, hiding it against my jeans. "I barely know
Edward," I whispered.

"He's not going to push you to get turned," Alice said, surprising me.
"He still thinks you'd be better off as a human. Even with the lack of
fated togetherness. He just wants... he wants you *around*. You know, I
think he might even settle for it if you just wanted to be his friend --
as long as he got to spend time with you. He can't tolerate being away
from you for long before he starts getting very annoying. He *paces*."
She wrinkled her nose. "I mean... given that he thinks you should stay
human and that you are very, *very* fragile, his best-case scenario
probably looks like being just friends from a spectator's perspective
anyway."

Right. Man of steel, woman of Kleenex.

"You still don't see me dead?" I checked. "I mean, not of unnatural
causes?"

"Still don't see you dead," Alice confirmed. "With a heartbeat or
without, you're walking around as far as I can see."

I considered this. It was not that much to ask. I didn't have any spite
for Edward, let alone enough to drive him up the wall when the remedy
was easily enough at hand. "I will," I said, "be Edward's friend, for
the time being. And I will think."

Alice nodded. "I'll let him know." And she got up and glided out of my
room to let herself out.

* * * * *

On Saturday, Edward visited.

He arrived shortly after Charlie and I had split the last of breakfast's
blueberry pancakes. Charlie answered the bell and seemed pleasantly
surprised to find Edward on the doorstep. He invited the vampire in
without even consulting me, though Edward mentioned that he was here to
see me ("to study for Biology", he said).

"It's a pity you weren't here in time for breakfast," Charlie remarked
as Edward strolled into our house. Of course Edward had probably been
parked outside, listening to Charlie's thoughts until the food was all
gone. Or hiding far away, someplace with a direct line of
vampirically-enhanced sight in through our window.

"I had breakfast earlier," Edward said smoothly. His eyes were still
gold, so I supposed that was probably true. "Bella? Where is the best
place to study?" He lifted his prop of a knapsack and tilted his head
inquiringly.

"My room," I said shortly, and I showed him up the stairs.

"I'm going to go fishing, Bells," Charlie called as I went up the
stairs. "I'll be home late."

"Okay," I hollered back.

I sat on my bed. Edward took my chair, as Alice had during her visit.

"I somehow don't think you really want to study Biology," I told him.

"You're right," he grinned. I wasn't sure if he could tell that I was in
a poor mood and was trying to fix it, or hadn't noticed.

"I do that sometimes." I had questions pending, anyway -- I might as well
ask the one applicable to Edward while he was around. "So... want to
tell me the story of how you became a vampire?"

"If you like," he said, although it sounded like he didn't prefer to
tell the story. "It was in 1918. I was seventeen, dying of the Spanish
influenza. My parents were already dead -- Carlisle could change me
without anyone noticing, there were so many victims of the outbreak. I
was the first one he added to the family..." -- I'd guessed that, from
the portraits -- "but he found Esme soon after. She'd... fallen from a
cliff."

I frowned. "So he saved your life. You don't *have* to be mortally ill
or injured to turn, do you?" Of course, this was the obvious impetus to
turn someone -- clearly it could save an otherwise unsalvageable life.
But if it was necessary...

Edward shook his head. "That's the only way Carlisle does it. He
wouldn't take anyone's mortal life from them if they had one to live.
But no, it's not strictly necessary."

"So Rosalie and Emmett, too? They were dying?"

"Yes," said Edward. Then he looked puzzled. "I know Alice told you about
how she doesn't know what happened to her when she was human, and I
guess if Carlisle had turned her it would be reasonable that he'd have
told her something about where she came from, but how did you know that
Carlisle didn't turn Jasper?"

"I'm guessing," I said. "From the portraits on the second floor of your
house -- Jasper and Alice arrived together, didn't they? If Carlisle
turned Jasper and not Alice, it would be a huge coincidence for her to
show up close enough to his turning that they'd show up in the same
picture. Also, it would be peculiar for him to turn up at the diner full
of humans where he met her, if he were new at the time."

Edward nodded. "Perceptive."

"Thank you."

* * * * *

I heard the door to Charlie's car slamming, and I leaned to look out the
window. He pulled out of the driveway and headed out -- presumably to
pick up a fishing buddy or two before going to try and catch dinner.

"My turn," said Edward lightly, and my head turned back towards him
automatically.

"Your turn?" I asked, confused.

"For a story," he said, smiling faintly. "Why don't you tell me about
how you came to move to Forks?"

I was briefly nonplussed by this request. It wasn't a particularly
interesting story. "My mother remarried," I said. Edward, to his credit,
didn't interrupt me with some guess about my not getting along with
Phil. "He's fine," I said, in case he was thinking it, "but he plays
baseball for a living, and has to move around a lot. Renée couldn't
travel with him because she had to be home with me most of the time, and
that made her unhappy, so I decided to come and live with Charlie."

"You care about her a lot," he murmured.

"She's my *mom*," I said.

"Tell me about her," Edward invited.

"She looks a lot like me, but with shorter hair..." I began.

There was no further pretense of taking turns -- the conversation
proceeded organically. Edward was fascinated by the smallest details
about me (he wanted to know about my decision to do yoga instead of
conventional gym; he wanted to hear all about the classes I'd taken in
Phoenix; he wanted to learn about my extended family; he wanted to
memorize my favorite color; he was curious about my taste in movies).

I didn't get caught up in *quite* so many minutiae about him -- but that
was largely because Edward was more than a hundred years old. He knew
his birthdate, unlike Alice -- they were probably the same chronological
age, though she'd been turned two years later -- and also unlike Alice,
he remembered being human. That added up to more than a century of
material, and once he caught the trend of what interested me, he catered
to it -- there was no need to dwell on tiny things like favorite color
with all that to talk about. From his vast available supply, he
handpicked the very best stories of traveling around the country and the
world, offering as topics learning everything from how to fly a plane to
foreign languages. At first, he seemed hesitant to go on talking as long
as was necessary to do justice to some of his memories, but I made every
effort to look as rapt as I felt. He still asked me questions when
something he was curious about came up -- wanted to know what my favorite
flowers were when he mentioned a botanical garden, things like that --
but he did more of the talking than I did, overall.

It really should have occurred to me that Edward would be *interesting*.

He hadn't just seen and done dozens of amazing things -- he had a
wonderful way of telling them. Apparently his pre-turning ability to
read people had not been *completely* supplanted with mindreading and
made rusty from disuse, and he rapidly picked up on what had me on the
edge of my seat and what left me cold, adjusting accordingly. By the
time my rumbling stomach announced that it was time for lunch, rather
than a continued description of the Great Barrier Reef around which a
vampire could safely dive free of equipment, Edward had figured out how
to have me hanging off his every word. His beautiful voice didn't hurt --
but I was pretty sure I'd have been thrilled to read his stories in an
e-mail, too.

"You're hungry," he said, pausing in the middle of explaining how little
octopi cared to be near vampires.

"A bit. I'll just go down and get some carrots and ranch; I'm sure
Charlie will bring home more fish than I know what to do with and I
should make sure I have an appetite for dinner."

Edward let me finish my sentence, although as soon as I said *carrots*
it looked like it was very hard for him to do so. "You could let me take
you out to lunch," he said quietly.

"You don't think it would look a bit odd for us to walk into a
restaurant and have only one of us eat?" I asked. I didn't bring up the
financial imposition. (It would be ridiculous and probably insulting. If
they hadn't already thought of sending Alice and a spare thousand
dollars to toy with Wall Street, they should all have been set on fire
for stupidity: they had to be many times richer than they looked. Also,
Edward was from 1901, and accordingly I felt no obligation to haul out
modern rights and responsibilities for my gender that didn't happen to
suit me.) I didn't protest the suspiciously datelike nature of the
invitation, either. I'd agreed to be his friend, and friends sometimes
had lunch together; and five solid hours of continuous, un-awkward
conversation had done a lot to push me towards the "okay, give it a
shot" plan.

"Not enough to cause a problem," he assured me. "If you're worried about
it, we can order two things, and you can have half of each and bring the
rest home. I can always take a bite or two if the waitstaff do get
suspicious, but it's unlikely. You really have to act a *lot* stranger
than what passes for normal to get serious attention."

That was a good plan. My stomach gurgled again. "I don't know any good
restaurants around here."

"What kind of food do you like?" Edward asked. Oh -- right. Perfect
recall. He didn't need to *eat* to know what was to be had, he only
needed to have heard of the choices, in speech or in thought.

"All kinds," I said, "but right now I think I'm in the mood for
Italian."

"There's nothing worthwhile in Forks," Edward said, "but there's a nice
place in Port Angeles."

"That's an hour away," I said.

"Not if you let me drive," Edward said, "in a car other than your truck,
fast."

I gritted my teeth. "Let me think," I said.

He nodded, and watched me; I shut my eyes.

What were my *real* reasons for preferring not to speed, and did they
apply?

Well, Charlie *would* be scandalized. Why did that matter to me? I
trusted Charlie's judgment in general... he was level-headed, not rash,
those seemed like good qualities. "Don't speed" was the essence of being
unrash. But only because it was dangerous, physically and legally -- when
a human was behind the wheel. A human who couldn't psychically detect
things like road rage and didn't have extranormal reflexes. Charlie
didn't know that Edward wasn't one of those, and I didn't know how that
knowledge would change his reaction. It was still illegal. But the only
*good* reason to have a speeding law was the danger. It was... not very
dangerous with a vampire behind the wheel, and not very likely to get us
in trouble with the law with his mindreading. But...

"What," I asked, "would you do if, in spite of everything, we *did*
crash?"

"Claw open the roof of the car, grab you, jump out, and then bang up the
car enough that no one would notice the suspicious part of the damage,"
he told me at once. "It would actually be safer for you *not* to wear a
seatbelt. I could snap one, but it'd take me an extra moment."

The people who skipped seatbelts in the expectation of being "thrown
clear" were morons. But Edward's scenario seemed plausible. Any others
involved in the crash would probably be too distracted to see anything
unusual about our departure from the car.

My only good reasons to say no to the *driving* part were not
applicable. Accordingly, if I were to say no, it would have to be for
other reasons, and I had none.

"Fine, then, lunch in Port Angeles," I said.

"Really?" Edward asked.

"Really. Are you going to just run to your house and get a fast car?" I
asked.

"I can do that," he said slowly. I wondered why the reluctance, and then
he answered my unspoken question. "Or *we* could run there, and then you
wouldn't need to wait for me to bring it here to pick you up."

"All right," I said. *That* transportational issue had already been
resolved to my satisfaction. "Hold your breath if you need to." I got up
and exited the house, hearing his quiet footsteps behind me as I went.

Once we were outside and I'd locked the door, Edward looked at me
questioningly -- to make sure I was ready, I guessed -- and I nodded to
him. He picked me up very carefully, the same way Esme had.
"Comfortable?" he asked.

"I'm fine," I breathed. I was not uncomfortable, but I *had*
underestimated how I would react to Edward picking me up. Maybe he'd
been hesitant to suggest it and had asked Esme to carry me on Thursday
because he was trying to follow Alice's instructions about going *slow*
with me...

And then he took off, and the colors around me became lightning streaks
retreating into the distance.

* * * * *

Esme *had* been jogging. *This* was a run.

I turned my face into Edward's chest and tucked my arms in close to my
body, trying to reduce the surface area exposed to the whistling, humid
wind. I didn't believe he was running flat-out. I'd watched him
practically teleport across the vampires' baseball field, and I didn't
think I was quite sturdy enough to deal with that much safely. But it
was very fast.

In an odd way, it was pleasant to be so securely held at such a high
speed. It was poking some subconscious reptile-brain piece of me, I
guessed, some part that wanted a protector and wanted to be sure that
protector would suffice in extreme circumstances. The reptile-brain
piece did not have the sophistication to realize that its would-be
protector was also causing the extremity of the circumstances. It just
noticed that I was going abnormally fast, and that a person it had other
reasons to like was holding me nice and tight, preventing the speed from
bringing me to harm.

And this was accompanied by a nice, warm feeling that quite compensated
for the whooshing wind.

In only a few minutes we were at the Cullen house -- or rather, in the
forest near it. A white outbuilding, painted to match the main house,
was nestled among the trees, with a smooth dirt track leading from it to
the road connecting their driveway to the highway. I estimated that it
would hold a dozen cars -- there were three doors, each with room for the
adjacent passage of two cars, but the building was deep enough that it
could be the same on the other side. Edward put me down on my feet, and
let me hang on his arm for a moment while I reassured myself that my
legs were not too wobbly to work. Upon confirming that they functioned
normally -- which is to say, that I was only four or five times more
likely than a normal human to fall on my rear -- I stood up unsupported.

Edward reached into his pocket and presumably pressed a remote for one
of the doors. The middle one on our side peeled open to reveal the
familiar Volvo that the Cullens drove to school. Beside it sat another
silver car, bearing a logo with wings -- a vampire would have been able
to read its text from my vantage point, but I couldn't, and I didn't
know cars. "Volvo, or the other one?" I asked Edward.

"The other one," he said, sounding amused by my designation. I
approached the car, and he appeared at the driver's side door in the
blink of an eye to unlock it and get in before I arrived. I sat down,
closed the door gently to avoid harming the likely-valuable car, and
consciously reminded myself not to fasten my seatbelt. The interior was
comfortable and fancy.

I closed my eyes for most of the ride, and brushed out the
running-induced tangles from my hair with my fingers. Once Edward was
done accelerating, and when we were not in the middle of a curve, I
couldn't feel the speed much; I didn't want to see it either. On the
highway, he picked up storytelling right where he'd left off with the
coral reef.

* * * * *

Edward got us to Port Angeles in twenty minutes without crashing or even
having to swerve. I didn't hear any sirens, which was good (it hadn't
occurred to me to ask whether his policy was to stop for cops or to
simply *outrace* them) and he found a parking space immediately,
possibly with the help of mindreading.

The restaurant was an intimate, warmly decorated establishment. Awnings
sheltered the interior from what little sunlight filtered through the
clouds, and it was mostly illuminated by candles. I wondered if this was
the nicest Italian place in town or just the one Edward most wanted to
take me to.

We received our menus after we'd sat down at our little table in the
back corner. I scanned it, trying to pick two things -- I eventually
decided on a pasta primavera entrée and minestrone soup. I thought I
could probably finish the whole bowl of soup and a third of the pasta,
which would have to do for alleviating odd looks. Edward received my
whispered ordering instruction with a nod, and faithfully reported my
soup request as though it were his own when the waiter wandered by.

My bread basket and glasses of water for each of us arrived promptly,
and I took a sip from mine. Then I glanced around the restaurant; it
wasn't very crowded. "I know you don't like food," I murmured to Edward,
"but what about drinks -- water?"

He blinked. "You know, it never occurred to me to try drinking water?"
he said wryly. He picked up his glass and took a swallow, then set it
down again, smacking his lips thoughtfully.

"Verdict?" I asked. "You know your usual diet is ninety-five percent
water."

"Somewhat warmer water," said Edward, a little absently, looking at the
glass. "It doesn't taste like anything. It doesn't seem to affect my
thirst either way. I suppose it'd contribute to the disguise if we were
seen drinking water occasionally."

"Considerably," I speculated. "It never occurred to any of you?"

"I'm sure at least one of 'us' in *general* tried it at one time," he
said, avoiding the word "vampire" -- either he'd noticed someone
listening, or thought there might be a spectator with my same mental
opacity. "I don't know about my family, but I doubt it."

"Huh." I wondered what other things they'd simply not tried. "Do you
want to taste the broth of my soup?"

"No, the soup is for you," he said. "If it seems appropriate to try more
liquids I can do it without helping myself to your lunch."

I shrugged and took a roll, which I buttered. "Tell me what happened
after you found the shark," I said encouragingly, trying to get him to
pick up his story where he'd been at the end of the drive.

"You don't think I've talked too much about myself for an entire year?"
he asked wryly.

"It's interesting," I said. "You've got fewer constraints and more time
than... than most people, and you use it well."

"Well," said Edward, "why don't you tell me what you would want to do
with all that time and without all those constraints?"

I bit into my roll. "Why don't you want me to have that?" I asked
quietly, after I swallowed it.

He looked pained. "This is a bad place, I think," he said. "I'm -- I'm
trying not to keep secrets. But this is a bad place."

It really was, I supposed. "In the car, then," I said.

"All right," Edward replied, softly.

Souls
=====

My soup was tasty. The pasta was all right, although the cook took the
idea of "al dente" more seriously than I preferred. My estimates about
my appetite proved basically accurate, and when I'd finished eating and
gotten a box for the remaining food, Edward paid the bill and we left
the restaurant. "It's a nice place," I said.

"I'm glad you liked it," he said heavily -- nervous about having to tell
me why he didn't care to have me immortal? -- and unlocked his car. I got
in; he waited for a gap in traffic, then ducked into the driver's seat
and pulled out.

"So," I said.

"Right," he sighed, taking the exit onto the highway and rapidly getting
up to speed. "I'm not expecting you to understand this."

"Try me," I said peevishly.

"First," he said, "can you tell me about your religious leanings?"

This didn't make a lot of sense. "Why is that relevant?"

"I'm asking this first because otherwise I'm not sure how to present my
position," he said.

"I don't think about religion much," I said. "Renée tries out new
churches like some people try on shoes. She never made a habit of
bringing me along."

"What do you believe about souls?" asked Edward, and I had an inkling of
where this was going.

"Edward, if you're going to tell me that I have a soul because I'm a
human and you don't because you're a vampire, that's a *ridiculous*
objection. What is it that you think souls *do*? What functionality do
you think you *lost* back in 1918? You can clearly think, so if you're
right about who's got a soul, then souls don't do that. You can make the
decision to not slaughter everybody around you even when they'd be
delectable, so if you're right, souls don't handle moral reasoning.
You've got memories, so your soul wasn't storing those for you until it
left. And it would be remarkably *original* theology if you said that
the soul was responsible for making humans breakable and slow and weak
and mortal, but if that's what souls do, I'm not sure why anybody would
*want* one."

"What about an afterlife?" Edward murmured.

"What about it? Suppose there's a God," I humored him. "Suppose there's
a God and he likes to stash dead people in afterlives appropriate to
them when they die. Why would a soul be called for? If for some reason
one *were* essential, why couldn't you just be issued a new one if
something unfortunate happened to your first one? This is God we're
talking about. He isn't going to run out of ectoplasm to make souls out
of. He's not going to forget who you are because you don't have your
soul attached. Or maybe that's not what you mean," I said. "Maybe you
mean vampires automatically go to hell, when you play with matches a
little too much -- but think about that, really. You didn't hold a
flamethrower to Carlisle's head and demand to be changed, did you?"

"No," Edward murmured.

"Right, you were delirious with the flu, most of the way to dead.
Scarcely in a position to be held responsible for anything you did. But
let's say that you're destined for hell for something you didn't do
anyway. If that's the sort of thing that can get you damned, I'm
probably already in trouble for having divorced parents, or for having
eaten non-kosher baby food, or something like that."

"*You* won't be delirious with the flu," Edward said darkly.

"You're right. I won't. But I thought you were talking about a property
of vampires in general, not just willfully turned ones," I said. "Right?
No fiddling around with your theory while we're in the middle of a
conversation about it, please."

"...Right."

"Now when Carlisle turned -- let's not use you as an example. When
Carlisle turned Esme, she had just fallen off a cliff and was dying. At
that time, she had a soul, right?"

Edward made an awful face. "Okay, okay," he said. "Never mind about
souls."

I sighed. "Do you actually no longer believe that turning into a vampire
makes an important thing called a 'soul' evaporate, or do you just not
want to think about Esme being someone who lacks an important thing
called a 'soul'?"

He was silent, and I sighed heavily and closed my eyes again to avoid
looking at the whoosh of trees to either side of the highway.

* * * * *

Edward dropped me off at my house. "Have a good weekend, Bella," he said
tightly. I'd pushed him a little too far -- he'd remained silent
throughout the rest of the drive back from Port Angeles even when I
tried to get him to resume telling the story about the shark. He drove
away with no mention of the possibility that he might come in and
continue talking to me and no attempt to make more plans. I practically
flounced into the house and up to my room.

I gave myself a little shake. I hadn't screwed anything up permanently.
I was literally *incapable* of screwing things up permanently with
Edward. The worst I could do would be to die of old age out of spite.

That didn't mean I should abuse this freedom. (In particular, it would
be very foolish of me to die if it turned out there was no good reason I
ought to.) But it did mean that it wasn't very productive of me to fret
about things I'd already done.

Bringing up Esme had clearly been the sticking point, but he hadn't
seemed very comfortable before that, either. It was probably a touchy
subject. If I thought souls were important and that I didn't have one I
probably wouldn't want to talk about them at all, I guessed. He'd only
felt it relevant because it was part of why he wanted me to stay human.

I wondered if the other vampires believed the same thing as Edward,
about souls. I wrote down that I should ask them this. I also wrote,
while I had my notebook out, that Alice had promised we'd have the
conversation about her powers "later".

Once I'd written this down, I felt strangely... blank. I'd been looking
forward to a nice, empty Saturday to do my thinking with. Then my hand
had been forced on the decision all that thinking was *for*: Alice had
shown up and cornered me into agreeing to be friends with Edward. (And
this was shaking out to mean that I agreed to go out to lunch in a cozy
Italian restaurant in Port Angeles with Edward on his dime after
listening breathlessly to his exciting stories for hours on end. No
wonder Alice had found my concession satisfactory.) All I had left to do
was ask more questions, not process existing knowledge. And I'd gone and
done all my homework.

Well, maybe I wasn't completely out of things to mull over. I could
probably kill at least an hour producing an updated approximation of how
I felt about Edward.

But I didn't really want to write that sort of thing down until I'd
dealt with the fact that Alice could see me writing anything I decided
to write. Would she be able to read things I wrote if I typed them, with
a box over my keyboard and a blanket over the monitor and my head? My
spelling would suffer, but not irretrievably. She only *saw* things,
visually, so that should do it unless her vantage point was so flexible
that it could be between my face and the screen -- but it called for a
test. A *real* test, where I only had a guess, not an expectation.

I wrote that down. (If Alice saw *that* and had the afternoon free maybe
she'd show up and we'd conduct the experiment right away.)

I tried to push the problem around in my head without writing anything.
It was hard -- I kept not trusting conclusions I'd gotten to and having
to backtrack and reestablish them. My independence from my notebooks,
which I'd thought so well-honed when I first arrived in Forks, was not
solid enough to hold up to serious problems. My unaided brain was fine
for little things. But thinking back, I'd needed three pages to decide
to leave Phoenix at all. I frowned to myself. This was a problem.

*Wean self from notebooks*, I wrote under my to-hack list. I crossed off
the line about looking at pretty people: I was pretty sure they didn't
mind. And then I spent my afternoon thinking kind thoughts about rain.

*Clouds*, I thought, *will help me hide when I am a vampire.*

* * * * *

I did not see any vampires on Sunday.

I got lonely (Charlie had to work), and so I called and convinced
Angela, Jessica, and even Lauren to all join me for a movie. There were
no proper theaters in Forks, so we all piled into Jessica's mother's car
and drove to Port Angeles. The theater we found was still showing the
Phantom of the Opera movie, which Jessica badgered us all into seeing.

Lauren complained about the movie selection, citing the "incredible
lameness" of musicals, but went in with us instead of buying a ticket to
something else. When we walked out, she was swooning over Gerard Butler,
talking over Jessica's attempt to claim all the credit for the movie's
highlights. I dismissively told her that he looked like a grown up
version of Eric. This was a blatant lie (the coloring was right, but
nothing about their features matched), but it seemed like a convenient
way to have her thinking about Eric without thinking that I was after
him myself. I couldn't tell by looking at her if this had worked.

We got lunch, wandered around the city, and stopped in a few stores to
admire articles of clothing, to justify the trip with more than just the
one movie. Angela bought a sweater and Jessica succumbed to the
temptation of a pair of heels. I considered buying a ruffly red blouse,
but eventually skipped it. Lauren tried on everything she saw but didn't
want to make any purchases.

We ran out of steam at about five p.m. and decided to go back to Forks
instead of getting an early dinner in Port Angeles. I made fried fish --
Charlie had our freezer packed from top to bottom with fish from his
Saturday trip -- and then baked a pan of brownies just to have something
more to do. If I had been a vampire, I wouldn't have needed baked goods
to occupy myself. If I'd been a vampire, I could have run all the way to
Port Angeles, doing gymnastics on the way without putting a foot wrong,
and bought that blouse and run back. If I'd been a vampire, I could do
all the thinking I wanted to do in my *head* where it was *safe* with my
vampire total recall supplanting my notebooks. If I'd been a vampire, I
could have just been stuck like Edward, stuck *with* Edward, and
wouldn't have needed to do so much thinking in the first place.

I frowned to myself as I took the brownies out of the oven and
immediately cut one for myself, letting it cool faster on a plate of its
own. I shouldn't *not want to think*; that seemed bad. I caught myself
trying to amend the thought and quickly muttered to myself, "I don't
want to think about whether I want Edward and don't know why" too
quietly for Charlie to hear and too indistinctly for Alice to be likely
to be able to read my lips. It wasn't as good as writing, but it moved
the idea from my vague memory of my own thoughts into my slightly more
reliable auditory storage.

I ate my brownie slowly and pondered. Dealing with Edward did show signs
of being the single most momentous decision of my life. I had thought it
was a big deal when I moved out of Arizona for Renée's sake, but
changing residence didn't hold a candle to changing species and
acquiring a mate-for-life. I was *seventeen*. Renée talked constantly
about how she'd gotten married too young, and she'd already been twenty
when I was born very soon after the wedding. (I was only barely not a
honeymoon baby. She took great care to emphasize that she did not regret
having *me*, but I'd found it surprisingly easy to come to terms with
the fact that if my parents had been smarter, I wouldn't exist.) Renée
had drilled into my head that marriage was something mature and smart
people took seriously, something that was not good or sane to rush into,
something that she swore up and down not to prod me about until I was at
least thirty.

Edward had not presented me with jewelry of any kind, let alone an
engagement ring, but from what Alice said, my merely being turned would
drop me into something a good deal *more* serious than a marriage.
Renée's rash action had only landed her a daughter and the need to spend
time with a divorce lawyer and, likely, some emotional turmoil.

Edward was already stuck, but I didn't have to be. If I got myself
stuck, and it was a bad idea, I could *never* undo it unless I had some
quality no other mated vampire known to Edward had ever had.

I considered the possibility that he was lying about what he had and had
not heard of. (I had finished my brownie by this point, and was
muttering to myself freely in the relative privacy of my room. As an
added layer of precaution, I buried my face in my pillow.) He had been
prepared to go to some trouble to avoid it in other situations, after
Alice's advice. And it didn't seem like he had any reason to believe
that I'd find the prospect of an unbreakable commitment *more* enticing
than a merely intense and magically propped-up one. No motive. Probably
wasn't a lie, then.

I wondered by what mechanism vampires were stuck. Edward had been quite
capable of becoming cross with me and ending our day together when I
said something he didn't like. He wasn't physically prevented from
leaving my side. He wasn't limited exclusively to positive emotions
towards me. I wondered what he would do if I told him I never wanted to
see him again and that he should go away. I didn't want to test that --
that much I knew -- but it would be useful information to have. What
happened if vampires *tried* to break up?

I was going about this the wrong way, I decided. The effect was probably
more to do with the selection process. Edward had been around for quite
some time and it took him that long to find me. There were too many
vampire couples running around for it to be a matter of finding one's
One True Soulmate out of all the world -- there were just too many
people. There had to be a pool of possible soulmates that only narrowed
to one when that one was encountered.

I didn't know if most vampires met their fated beloveds after they'd
both been turned, like Alice and Jasper, or when one was human, like
Carlisle and Esme. If it was the former, then whatever it was that
narrowed down the potential candidates probably correlated with
something that was likely to get those candidates turned into vampires,
too. That held with *me*, at least -- I had my mental privacy (a million
thanks to whatever quirk had given me that) and humans with promising
talents were commonly turned. If it was the latter... then I could only
imagine a lot of vampires who ate humans and didn't take the time to
introduce themselves first were going to wander alone forever, but that
was beside the point.

If it was the latter, and not every coven had an Alice to give them
instructions and assure them that vampirehood was in their target's
future, then I could only imagine that most humans selected in this way
were turned against their wills. Most vampires thought nothing of
slaughtering people left and right; leaving their only shot at having
companionship up to the wayward affections of the human companion would
not be the sort of thing they'd opt to do when they could just take a
bite.

But it was hard for them to stop when they hunted. Probably, turning
instead of killing was also hard... Carlisle had turned Edward, Esme,
Rosalie, and Emmett. He was the one with the extra, special ability to
resist the lure of blood.

And there were supposed to be a lot of married vampires, not just among
the Cullens.

So most likely, vampire couples typically met as vampires and were
symmetrically attached from day one.

Drat. No readily available precedents to anchor on. Unless the Cullen
couple I hadn't learned as much about -- Rosalie and Emmett -- had a story
relevant to the situation.

And I was back to having questions to ask, not previously acquired
information to turn over in my head.

* * * * *

I sat with the vampires at lunch again on Monday. I wasn't sure, as I
approached the cafeteria, whether they'd welcome me, but Alice flitted
by and murmured that I could join them, and so once I'd collected my
food I took the empty chair at their table. All of them had bottles of
water; Jasper sipped from his constantly, making it look like a nervous
habit, and every now and then, one of the others would take a swallow as
well.

When I got there, Rosalie was dominating the conversation, monologuing
about how she was not happy with the photos on her current passport and
driver's license and planned to major in photography in college so as to
be able to get better pictures. (I assumed she left off the phrase "this
time around" only because we were in a room full of humans, and relied
on stereotypes of blondes to save her from someone remembering that
people, even photographers, generally didn't take their own ID
snapshots.)

Emmett told her, "But it's your turn to go to medical school next,
Rose."

"I've already been," she grumbled. "Why don't you go? Or Alice? There's
no reason it has to be just me and Edward taking turns. Anyway, I think
Carlisle can wait a little longer."

"Wait, what?" I put in eloquently. Rosalie rolled her eyes and looked
away, somewhat vacantly, apparently not wishing to be part of any
conversation in which I participated.

Edward answered my question. I'd avoided looking directly at him since
I'd sat down, unsure how or when he wanted to pick back up being
"friends". But when he spoke, my head turned automatically, and he
didn't appear upset, just interested in satisfying my curiosity:
"Carlisle needs updates on how medicine is advancing, every now and
then," Edward said. "He returns to medical school himself sometimes, but
to reduce the chances he'll be recognized by a colleague, I've also been
twice and Rosalie once, to update him. She graduated summa cum laude
from Columbia," he added, glancing at his sister; I guessed that he had
hoped to flatter her back into the conversation by mentioning this
achievement. I thought I saw a flicker of a smile on her face before she
resumed staring out the window.

"Reading journals won't do?" I asked blankly. I wondered, but didn't
ask, why Rosalie hadn't mentioned Jasper.

"Carlisle has to be able to seem like he's fresh out of med school,"
Alice put in. "He reads journals, too, but they don't necessarily say
much about what they're saying to new students straight out of pre-med."

"Makes sense," I acknowledged. I considered offering to go next, but I
wasn't even a vampire yet, let alone an acknowledged fixture of the
Cullen family who could do such things as go to medical school on
Carlisle's behalf. Being a doctor wasn't my life's ambition, but it
sounded like something I'd like to get around to with forever to spend
learning anything I liked. "How do you deal with being around blood? I
assume you have to be around blood in med school."

"I held my breath," said Edward, "and didn't go to work thirsty."

Rosalie tossed her hair and didn't answer; I wasn't sure if that meant
that Edward's reply held for her as well, or if she just didn't feel
like sharing.

"So," I asked, as the topic dwindled to a halt, "where did your last
names come from?"

"Cullen was Carlisle's last name as a human, and he kept it," Edward
said. "I didn't always use it -- at first, I used to pretend to be his
brother-in-law, a younger brother to a fictional dead wife, and I used
my original last name, 'Masen'. I pretended to be Esme's brother when
she joined us and used her maiden name, which was 'Platt', for some
time. When Rosalie arrived, she preferred to keep her real last name,
'Hale'; then to explain ourselves we started using the template you're
familiar with, where Esme and Carlisle are adoptive parents to the rest
of us, so I took the Cullen name. Emmett did the same when he arrived,
and so did Alice, but Jasper took advantage of his and Rosalie's similar
coloring and pretends to be a Hale."

"I suppose it would be awkward for you four to present as unmarried
couples if there weren't at least two last names between you," I mused,
waving vaguely at Alice, Jasper, Emmett, and Rosalie. "Even given that
you advertise you're adopted. Still, why use real names? Surely that
would make it easier to follow you if anyone got suspicious? You could
just make things up."

"Rosalie is attached to her name," said Edward. "And Carlisle has used
his for more than three hundred years without anyone successfully
following him. Although we may need to change policies as computers
start leaving more easily discoverable traces in more places."

I nodded. "Your first names are all real?"

There were four nods and one, "I think so," from Alice.

"You don't remember that either?" I asked, turning to the little vampire
on my right.

"It *feels* like 'Alice' is my name," said Alice. "And it felt like my
name when I woke up. I just have no way to be sure. I don't have a guess
about a last name, or a middle one."

"I should probably learn all your full original names at some point, but
if I try to do it all at once I'll never remember," I said. "How's the
water working out for you all?"

"I can't believe we never thought of it," laughed Emmett boomingly.
"Makes us look that much more natural."

"It helps. I noticed my first day here that none of you seemed to be
eating anything."

"You're unsually observant," remarked Edward. I thought for a moment
that this was a compliment, and then I realized that he probably knew
just how much other students did and didn't notice.

"Well, I probably wouldn't have thought much of it, but it was *really*
conspicuous that day I sat with Alice," I said. "I guess you don't
normally pull aside random humans and sit down with them, though."

"Not likely," hissed Rosalie under her breath; I barely caught it.
Emmett nudged her with his elbow.

*The middle of the cafeteria is not the correct place to ask an impolite
vampire what her problem is,* I reminded myself, and Alice neatly
diverted the subject to the reception of the vampire family by Forks's
residents in general. Some had made an effort to be friendly -- Esme had
been invited to a garden party, things like that -- but they had no close
neighbors, did not initiate social plans of their own, and Carlisle was
sure to be merely cordial to his co-workers and those he encountered as
patients. Over time, as usual, people stopped going out of their way to
befriend the vampires.

"Charlie thinks the world of you all, you know," I commented. This
seemed to elicit surprise -- even from Edward. "You didn't notice?" I
asked him, confused. "Even when you showed up at my house -- he wasn't
thinking anything like that? I don't *think* he lied..."

Edward blinked, then gently smacked himself in the forehead just softly
enough to avoid making a telltale noise audible to nearby humans. "Of
course," he said. "Of *course*."

"What?" I asked, quite bewildered.

"Bella, I'm sorry to say that I always thought of your father as a man
who simply didn't think very much," said Edward. "I typically don't get
words from him -- just some images, some feelings, all a bit vague. I
couldn't tell what he thought of the family at all even when I was
standing right next to him. But with your complete inaudibility -- it
must be genetic, that's all. I imagine he thinks as much as anyone and I
simply can't make it out clearly. I wonder what your mother sounds like!
What combination would have created you and your silent mind?"

"Oh." I frowned. "You thought he was stupid?"

"No," Edward said quickly, then he winced and amended. "Not unusually
so. I didn't give it much attention," he pleaded, trying to backpedal.
"I'm usually not *trying* to listen to anyone."

"When would you have met him before, anyway?" I asked.

"We actually do buy food," Alice said. "To keep up appearances. Mostly
nonperishables we can save up and dump at a food drive in Seattle around
the holidays. It would look odd if we just never turned up at the
grocery store; someone would notice. And we're around town to buy other
things, sometimes -- lightbulbs, clothes, car parts, music, that sort of
thing. At least one of us has probably encountered any given person who
lives here, though we rarely chat."

"Just the car parts? Is one of you a mechanic?" I asked.

"That would be Rose," said Emmett, chucking his wife under the chin
affectionately. She smirked, more than smiled, but did acknowledge the
gesture and turn to face the table again.

It was an incongruous image, the vain model elbow-deep in engine oil,
but I didn't tease -- I wasn't entirely sure she wouldn't eat me, for one
thing, and for another, it only sounded silly for bad reasons.

* * * * *

The lunch bell rang. Edward escorted me to biology, any traces of
annoyance over the souls thing having evaporated, and then diverted
course to sit in his own seat while I joined Angela.

I was starting to regret having switched lab partners by the time I was
a quarter of the way through the class. Angela was nice and didn't drag
me down in the grades department, but she was not one for talking in
class -- and anyway, if I wanted her to hear me I would have to speak up
enough that I'd risk being heard. And we were *still covering cell
anatomy*. If I'd had a way to trade my mitochondria for the chance to
never hear the biology teacher drone on about them ever again, I might
well have done it.

How much worse must it be for Edward? He had several times more relevant
education than the man proposing to teach him about cells. He hadn't
even forgotten anything since the last time he heard it; I had to admit,
however grudgingly, that every seventh or eighth thing that came up in
the lecture was something I might have missed if it had appeared on a
pop quiz. And yet he was, apparently, in high school voluntarily. Maybe
he just found it easy to think about other things.

I wondered what he was thinking about. Coral reefs and sharks?
Portuguese verb conjugations?

Me?

What was I going to do about the souls thing anyway? It was really a
problem if Edward thought souls were important and vampires couldn't
have them. For one thing, I didn't think it would be good for his
self-esteem. Clearly, he could love and admire Esme and the other
members of his family. But on some level, this was hypocritical. How
could he care for vampires and find humans in general "boring", as Alice
had put it, while simultaneously thinking us mortals to be possessed of
some spectacular commodity that outweighed every vampire advantage all
by itself and ought to be preserved even at the cost of life itself? It
would be as though I decided that the objective content of moral worth
was the color yellow, and then went on sacrificing bananas and eggs and
squash so that Charlie could eat well because, even though he was not
yellow, I preferred to *act* as though he were more important than the
yellow things to which I'd assigned primacy.

If Edward really believed as he claimed, why hadn't he executed Emmett
the first time he'd eaten someone, or at least tried? If it were more
valuable to live as a human than as a vampire, then any vampire who was
a danger to any human ought not to exist, intent or no. Dangerous dogs
were executed even though no one held them morally culpable, simply
because they might hurt humans, a more valued species.

Edward might believe in souls, might believe they were important, might
believe vampires had none -- but he did not *act* this way -- except when
he was trying to decide what advice to give *me*.

There were several ways to explain this.

One: Edward was not actually in love with me. He'd fooled his entire
family (including Alice's visions of us being *so happy*), or had gotten
them in on it, and was carrying on an elaborate subterfuge for unclear
reasons, but didn't want to have to keep it up for all eternity, or deal
with fallout after I turned and was not magnetically drawn to him.
Implausible in the extreme -- too complicated, and no sensible motive in
sight.

Two: Edward did not realize that he didn't act like he believed what he
said about souls. This was more likely -- in particular, it explained why
he'd find it uncomfortable to talk about Esme as a soulless creature,
because it would expose the disparity between his words and behavior. It
was also not incompatible with other explanations.

Three: Edward had difficulty balancing selfish and selfless motives.
While he genuinely believed it would have been better *for Esme* if
she'd died at the bottom of the cliff, he thought it was better for
*him* that she be an immortal vampire who could remain a part of his
family forever -- now that his own soul was unsalvageable, anyway.
Thinking about how glad he was that she was alive made him feel bad
about himself, but the magical vampire love thing made him more
enforceably concerned with what he thought was best for me for my own
sake. This seemed plausible, although it relied on an assumption I
wasn't sure I could support about how vampires worked.

Four: Edward thought I would snap and kill people if I turned, and the
souls thing was a gentler way of advising me to stay human than saying
"Bella, love, I think you're likely to be a murderer." But he had gone
to some trouble to avoid lying to me.

I mulled this over, writing indecipherable shorthand in my notebook as a
reference ("*Lying, Confused, Selfish, Snap*" -- I hoped Alice wouldn't
be able to make sense of that if she saw it). The only way to figure out
which it was would be to talk to Edward more, but I suspected some
combination of two and three.

Biology dragged on.

* * * * *

Gym was a little better than Biology. (I almost laughed out loud
wondering what I'd have said if I'd been told back in December that I'd
think that.) Edward was on my mind, but at least not in the room
tantalizingly unadjacent.

After I'd dragged myself through an hour of yoga poses and left the gym,
Edward appeared beside me right on schedule. "Hello, Bella," he said
warmly.

Had he *completely* forgotten the conversation on Saturday? "Hello,
Edward."

"Would you like to visit us again today?" he invited.

"I don't see why not," I replied. "Unless you're still upset about the
souls thing and you're just a very good actor."

"There's no reason to talk about it," Edward said.

"There is," I said, "if you don't want me to be a vampire for reasons I
don't understand. I ought to have all the information before I decide --
headaches for Alice or no -- right?"

"Bella," he said pleadingly.

"I'm sorry I brought up Esme as an example. Would it be easier if we
talked about someone else? Rosalie?" I suggested.

Edward frowned. "I don't want to argue with you."

"It doesn't *necessarily* have to be a fight," I said. "But maybe -- I
don't know, do any of the others agree with you? I could talk it over
with someone else."

Edward was silent, looking somewhat brooding. "No," he said finally,
"but Carlisle's familiar with my views on the matter."

"Will he have a while to talk to me about it today?"

"Most likely," grumbled Edward.

"You don't sound happy about it," I said. "Why?"

"I was hoping to keep you to myself all day," he said with a faint
smile. "Even though I said 'us'."

"You still owe me the rest of the story about the shark, so you'll get
at least some of my afternoon," I reminded him. We arrived at my truck.
"Are you going to ride with me to your place?"

"You could let me drive," he said.

"The way you speed, you'd break the poor thing even without crashing. I
*like* my truck."

"I can keep it slow, for the truck's sake," Edward laughed. "I'm not
sure I can promise it won't break down, though. This thing's not likely
to last out the year. It might choose today to die."

"Well, lucky me," I said, walking around the front to get to the
passenger seat, "I can't be stranded with you around."

"It is an advantage," Edward acknowledged, sliding into the driver's
seat and holding out his hand for the keys. I dropped them into his palm
and he started the engine.

* * * * *

After I had gotten the shark story -- and three more -- out of Edward,
Carlisle came home. Esme flew to the door to greet him as he came in.
They looked and acted more like newlyweds than a long-married couple,
and it was cute to watch from my vantage point at the dining table.

"Bella, hello," said Carlisle after Esme had flitted up the stairs to
return to whatever she'd been doing. "How are you?"

"I'm well, thanks," I replied cheerfully. "Hey, if you have a bit, I
wanted to ask you something."

"Oh? I don't have anything pressing to do," Carlisle said genially. "We
can talk in my office if you like."

I got up and followed the doctor up the stairs. I thought I might have
heard Edward say something, but it was too low for me to make out; if it
wasn't my imagination, he'd surely intended the utterance for Carlisle,
who didn't visibly react.

Carlisle's office was cozy, and he gave me his undivided attention once
we had both taken seats. "What did you want to ask me?" he inquired.

"Did Edward tell you anything about the conversation we had on Saturday
-- about souls?" I asked.

"No," said Carlisle, furrowing his brow. "What happened?"

"Apparently he thinks vampires don't have any souls, and that they're
important," I said. "I just don't see how that could be. All of the
things humans can do that might be what souls handle, vampires can do
too -- you can think, you have memories better than mine, you can do
moral reasoning. I said as much and Edward mentioned the idea of an
afterlife. Even if I grant for the sake of argument that that's in the
picture, and it's hardly a trivial assumption -- *why* would he believe
that vampires have a different afterlife situation than humans? Are
there vampire ghosts floating about as cautionary tales that he didn't
mention or something?

"And," I went on, knowing Carlisle would have no difficulty keeping
track of my questions, "he doesn't want to talk about it any more, even
to answer those questions. I upset him on Saturday when I brought up
Esme as an example. If it's really better for a person to be a human and
eventually die than it is for them to live potentially forever as a
vampire, it *would* follow -- mind, I don't agree with this -- that it
would have been better for Esme if you'd let her die instead of turning
her. But Edward doesn't seem to think so. He only doesn't want *me* to
be a vampire. He said you wouldn't turn anybody who had a life to live,
at least under normal circumstances. I don't know who Alice saw turning
me back when she saw clearly; it might not have been you. But if I stay
human, I *will* eventually die, because that is just something humans
*do*, pretty darn reliably. And if I'm *not* going to stay human,
there's no obvious reason to wait until I'm dying of something to turn
me. Edward's basically saying that he wants me dead so I can keep my
soul, and doesn't have a coherent explanation of why I should be willing
to die to keep it."

Carlisle took all this in fairly calmly, although I'd gotten reasonably
animated towards the end. "I take it you aren't a religious sort," he
said.

I shrugged. "I can tell a nest of bad logic when I see one, religion or
no. Charlie's Lutheran but doesn't go to church, and Renée's flavor of
the week is Episcopalian, I think. I don't think I'm anything."

"Well, there's a lot of myth and legend that holds that vampires are
damned in exchange for our immortality on earth," said Carlisle. "Bad
logic or not, it's hardly an uncommon view, if you start from the
premise that vampires exist."

"Is that what Edward thinks, then?"

"No, actually," he replied. "Edward doesn't believe there is any
afterlife at all for our kind."

"But he thinks there is one for humans. Does he think there's a deity
orchestrating everything?"

"He's never put forth an opinion on that for sure, one way or the
other," Carlisle said. "You probably noticed that his is a vague sort of
belief."

"A deity would make less sense. There's no reason to *automatically*
obliterate vampires -- involuntary ones, willing ones, nice ones, mean
ones, ones that lived for ten years and ones that lived for a thousand,
all indiscriminately -- instead of providing an afterlife. You haven't
*all* killed people, have you?" I asked.

"We have not all killed people," Carlisle agreed.

"So no deity sane enough that Edward or anybody else could guess at its
reasoning would take vampires, as a group, off the guest list for the
afterlife," I said. "If it does, then it's acting so arbitrarily that it
might just as easily boot you for owning white socks. You can't base
decisions on something like that, even if it were true."

"You seem very open to the possibility of religions having some things
right, for someone who "isn't anything"," Carlisle observed.

"Not that long ago, I discovered that vampires exist," I pointed out.
"It's making it seem more likely that something about how I evaluate
supernatural claims is off, so I'm trying to be more careful. Anyway. A
force of nature doesn't need to act for reasons," I continued. "So it
could do something mean and pointless like not letting vampires have an
afterlife if there were one available. But the problem with that
hypothesis is that because you can't reason from *motives* about the
impersonal laws of the universe, the only way to know what they do is to
watch them doing it. I don't suppose Alice can see souls as they float
off to their final destinations?" I guessed.

"She cannot," Carlisle confirmed.

"Edward can't read the minds of dead people? Jasper doesn't get mood
readings off corpses? None of the Volturi or anybody have empirical data
on what happens to vampires, or humans, once they pass on?"

Carlisle shook his head. He was a good audience -- inserting facts where
I needed them and otherwise letting me think aloud.

"Is there *any* observation that *anyone* has plausibly claimed to make
*ever* indicating that an afterlife exists and that vampires don't get
in?" I inquired, and Carlisle shook his head again.

"Then that leaves us with a few possibilities consistent with vampires
losing the ability to go to an afterlife," I said. "There is a deity
sorting souls which dislike vampires, and it acts so inscrutably in so
disliking that there's no way to follow its reasoning and be sure to get
good results by acting in ways it likes. Or, there is a law of nature
governing the afterlife which prohibits vampires from getting in, which
nobody has any way of observing, and which we therefore have no reason
to believe exists. Am I missing something?" I asked.

"Not as far as I can tell," Carlisle said.

"And neither of those situations leaves me with a good reason not to
become a vampire," I concluded. "In either case, there's just no
information. A deity, if one exists, either acts for consistent reasons
that our minds can approximate, or it can't be tracked in such a way
that there's potentially efficacious things we can do to try and please
it. A naturally-arranged afterlife, if one exists, either admits
vampires or doesn't -- for that matter, it either admits *humans* or
doesn't -- and there is absolutely no way to tell. And furthermore,
there's no reason to believe that an afterlife of *any* kind exists,
given that there are no observations of it and the universe in general
doesn't seem like someone sane is running it. And all of that means that
the only criteria on which I should base my decision about becoming a
vampire on are how my *life* -- the part spent kicking about on Earth
with my eyes open and my brain running -- will be as a vampire or a
human. And that seems to come firmly down on the side of vampire, with
the whole immortal and superpowered thing. There are a couple of
disadvantages, but none worth literally dying to avoid."

I heard Alice's voice from down the hall hollering, "Thank youuuuuuuu,"
in relieved tones. Apparently my future had snapped back into place.

"You've given this a lot of thought," said Carlisle.

"Most of it just now," I said. "It helps to have an audience -- usually I
write, and that does the job, but if I *just* think, I wind up revising
things so they're pleasant instead of trying to make sure they're true."

"I'm glad I could help." He sounded very genuine when he said it -- he
was really pleased to have been able to serve as a sounding board and
fact-checker for my thought process.

"Yeah, thank you," I said brightly. "Now I just have to figure out how
to explain this to Edward so he doesn't avoid the topic like the plague
or continue to complain about me wanting to be a vampire. Although I
suppose he heard this entire conversation, unless he left the house and
got out of thought range or is tuning you out."

Carlisle nodded. "I somehow doubt that he did leave," he said.

"I guess I'll go see. Thanks again," I said with a warm smile.

And I left the office and descended the stairs to see what Edward
thought of the entire mess.

* * * * *

I tiptoed down three stairs, foolishly hoping to sneak up on Edward and
get a clue of his reaction before he noticed my approach, and then I
realized this was stupid -- I couldn't possibly walk quietly enough that
he wouldn't hear from any point in the house. So I clomped down the
stairs normally, and when my view of the first floor came to include
Edward, I found I needn't have bothered to tiptoe even if it would have
hidden me. He wasn't making any effort to conceal his body language -- it
screamed tension. His hands were clenched in his hair and he was bent
forward with his elbows planted on the table. I couldn't see his face,
but guessed it was in some contortion of displeasure.

"Edward?" I murmured.

"Hello, Bella," he said, just loud enough for me to hear. I reached the
bottom of the stairs and walked towards him. When I retook my chair, he
murmured, "There's no convincing you, is there?"

"If I'm missing some facts, or I made a bad inference somewhere, please,
tell me," I replied. "I realize there are drawbacks to being a vampire,
but... unless you're missing something *huge* in your informational
brochure... none of it looks worth dying to avoid. And that's what it
*would* be to stay human. You know that."

"There's no need for it to be *soon*, though," he said. Apparently he'd
either been convinced by my exchange with Carlisle, or considered *me*
so entrenched in my existing reasoning that he'd given up attacking it.
"You could wait. Finish high school, go to college."

"What's the advantage to doing that while human?" I asked. I could see
*disadvantages*: if I waited too long to turn, I'd be stuck looking like
a cougar forever once I wound up inevitably-vampire-married to Edward,
who'd been turned when he was seventeen and would stay that way. Some
cause of death Alice couldn't predict well in advance could get me -- an
indecisive murderer or something. I would have imperfect recall of the
experiences I accumulated during those years (or even, depending on what
had caused Alice's amnesia and how common it was, none at all). The
Volturi could discover and get annoyed with my continued status as a
human in-the-know, and force the issue at a time not of my choosing.

Surprisingly, Edward didn't deflect the question or answer with floaty
vagueness. "Timing," he said. "You *might* be able to safely return to
high school after only a summer to adjust -- you might not. And 'not' is
the sort of thing that we would find out for sure only if you actually
killed someone, so pushing it wouldn't be wise. In particular, you'd
need to avoid your family. Even after we were sure it was safe for you
to be around humans, the change would be very noticeable. You'll look
different, you'll move differently, you won't want to eat human food or
go out in the sun publicly -- all of these are things that people who
know you would pick up on. If anyone got inquisitive enough to find
something out, we'd need to turn them, too, whether they liked it or
not, or hide them from the Volturi well enough to keep them from getting
killed -- impractical, you should know."

"That it?" I asked, when he seemed to have finished.

"That's all I think you're likely to find swaying," he said.

I frowned -- that wasn't a good sign regarding Edward's own opinion of
what was and wasn't worth consideration -- but chose to put off pressing
the issue. "Okay," I said. "How does this timeline sound? You and I make
it known that we're an item, for setup purposes -- tomorrow, perhaps,
I'll tell Jessica and she can tell the whole school. We finish out the
school year as the showiest, most sickeningly inseparable couple in the
universe."

I closed my eyes, envisioning how the rest of the scenario would play
out, and went on. "We let out that your family is going on vacation to
Europe for the summer and I go along. Carlisle already looks
*suspiciously* young for the age he's claiming -- you couldn't have
planned to stay here much longer; I expect you were going to split once
you got out of high school. We could really go to Europe, or someplace
else, depending on how curious Charlie seems and accordingly how likely
we are to need to verifiably prove it -- he's the most likely point of
failure here, since he has the most interest in my personal life and the
most resources to poke around with. As soon as we get wherever we go,
you turn me and I start adjusting -- I'll be 'sick' for three days, if
anybody asks.

"I can keep in touch with my family by e-mail and phone. Maybe I'll get
a webcam with a really terrible picture and use it in a room with bad
light so they can see me without noticing I'm suddenly even paler and
have different colored eyes. And then I tell them we've eloped and I'm
going to take a super-long honeymoon-cum-gap year. That should be long
enough, since Alice saw me with newborn eyes near live humans without
being in the process of sucking their blood. Then I enroll in a college
someplace really inconvenient for either of my parents to travel to,
maybe in Australia, with a forged high school transcript if necessary,
and keep up with the electronic communication. We send them photos where
we're really tiny figures in the background, and/or where we touch up
the images so I look suitably pink and we both look the right
non-seventeen age."

I opened my eyes. Edward looked some awkward combination of impressed,
hopeful, and despairing. "Well?" I said.

"You're going to tell the entire school that we're an 'item'?" he said.

"If I'm going to turn, it's going to happen eventually," I said. "And it
lends plausibility to the rest of the story. I can't tell Jessica the
entire slew of details if I want her to live."

"It's interesting that you're so eager to be a vampire yourself, but you
don't want to change everyone you know, too," Edward said slyly.

"That's not it," I said. "It would be wonderful if Jessica and Angela
and Charlie and Renée and everyone else could all live forever. But I'd
need to *inform* them of what that would entail before I did it, to
satisfy my conscience. I can't assume they'll agree with me. And if I
informed them, and they *didn't like* the idea, then they'd have to be
hidden from the Volturi forever, or they *and* I would be killed for
breach of masquerade. I'd be risking my life to force anyone I told into
a choice between untimely death or potentially unwanted vampire life. Do
I have that about right?"

Edward nodded, looking disappointed that he hadn't actually found a
chink in my logic.

"Alice could probably see that I would like the idea of becoming a
vampire, before she told me the whole story," I said, excusing my own
case. "And I think it *would* be a good use of time to see if she can
check the likely reactions of a handful of favorite people, although I
can already guess that Charlie and Renée would probably say no. But I
*also* suspect that if this coven suddenly tripled in size, the Volturi
would take that as some kind of power grab. I certainly don't want them
to think we're challenging them, or about to. So even that, it wouldn't
be safe to overdo."

(I didn't want the Volturi to *think* I was trying for a coup. I might
want to actually commit one eventually -- they seemed overfond of the
death penalty and excessively dependent on secrecy. But Edward was not
immune to Aro, their mindreader -- and I might well be. Any such plans I
might develop had to stay safely in my head, initial steps concealed by
other overt reasons, until they were just about ready to spring into
existence.)

"The one thing left that I don't think I know," I said, "which might be
relevant, is the concern of Rosalie's you alluded to. Do you think she
would be willing to share it, or let you tell me?"

"Perhaps," Edward said, looking suddenly hopeful. "I'll go speak to
her." And he got up and disappeared up the stairs.

The Future
==========

Edward was gone for about fifteen minutes, and I passed the time by
writing out the plan I'd devised, with some trivial embellishments. I
knew Edward would remember it all perfectly, but I didn't want to have
to consult him every time I wanted to check up on a detail.

I was scribbling a list of possible Europe and non-Europe destinations
in the margins of my notebook when Edward and Rosalie came downstairs.
She looked disgruntled but basically peaceable, and Edward held his
features carefully neutral. He stopped at the foot of the stairs and
watched her approach me, and then went back up -- I supposed at least one
of them thought it was a two-person conversation. Rosalie's high heels
ticked regularly against the tile as she walked towards me and sat down.

"Edward said he didn't tell you about what led to -- this," Rosalie said
softly, gesturing at her perfect, white face. I nodded. "It's not a nice
story," she said. "It doesn't have a happy ending. I'm going to keep it
short."

It had been 1933, during the Great Depression, and Rosalie had been
eighteen and living in Rochester with her parents and two brothers. And
beautiful. Even as a human she'd been beautiful. The Depression didn't
affect her family very much -- her father had had a secure banking job,
and Rosalie was quite able to traipse about town in pretty dresses
imagining that the poor people she saw had brought their fates on
themselves. She made her own life sound like a fairy tale -- she was the
lovely, happy princess, who wanted certain things and had every reason
to believe she'd get them. Accordingly, one day the son of her father's
employer began to court her. She went on at some length about the lavish
wedding planned to end their whirlwind engagement, and about his habit
of sending her a bouquet of roses every day so her house overflowed with
them and she always smelled of their petals.

Rosalie experienced one pang of envy: a friend of hers had married
young, at seventeen, and a year later had a baby boy, adorable with dark
curls and dimples. They were not as sheltered from the economic troubles
of the world as Rosalie's family was. Rosalie's parents would never have
dreamed of letting her marry a man like her friend's carpenter husband,
while they approved of the banker's son. But Rosalie's friend had the
pretty baby, the happy marriage. So Rosalie amused herself with mental
images of her own fair-haired children playing on the wide lawns she'd
have surrounding her house soon enough.

The way Rosalie told it, it sounded almost rehearsed, like she'd thought
a lot about all of the details and knew just how she preferred to
describe them, the exact best intonation and vocabulary. Everything
sounded floaty, and far away, memorized as much as remembered.

She implied, but did not quite state, the unhappy ending she'd promised.

But I was able to piece together the events well enough.

Her fiancé and several of his friends had gotten drunk, found her
walking home alone from her friend's house, and gang-raped her, leaving
her injured enough to be dying.

That was how Carlisle had found her, broken and bleeding in the middle
of the street under the unseasonable April snow. He'd brought her home
and turned her -- over, Rosalie said, Edward's *objections* (he thought
she was too recognizable, Rosalie explained on his behalf; and if they'd
met socially, I doubted he'd have been favorably impressed). Between her
screams (which she informed me did nothing about the pain of the
transition), they were able to explain what she was becoming; and
finally, she finished, and finally believed them.

Rosalie then chose this moment to tell me, "You know, my record is
almost as clean as Carlisle's. Better than Esme's. A thousand times
better than Edward. I've never tasted human blood." She sounded proud.

"Almost as clean...?"

"I did kill them," she said, complacently, and I knew at once that
"they" were her attackers, and I could feel no ill judgment towards her.
"But I was very careful not to spill their blood. I knew I wouldn't be
able to resist that, and I didn't want any part of them in me."

She described their deaths in a bit more detail than I thought
necessary, though I didn't try to stop her. She went over how she saved
her fiancé for last, hoping he'd hear about the deaths of his friends
and live his last days in fear. Considering she'd found him in a
windowless room with doors like a bank vault's and two armed men
guarding him -- whom she'd also killed -- this seemed to have been
effective. She had stolen a wedding dress to wear for the occasion, to
be theatrical about it. But there had been no blood, and no feeding.

I now had reason to believe that *all* of the Cullens except Carlisle
had killed humans before. Was he the only exception? It would be
consistent with the statement "we have not all killed people" if only
one had abstained. Maybe the Denali coven had better records. But there
*was* Carlisle, and neither Rosalie nor Edward had *indeliberately*
killed. And I had been seen to adjust well, in Alice's visions. I might
be all right. If I did not feel *sure* I would be all right, once I was
a vampire and knew the scope of the thirst, then I would simply avoid
humans in the flesh.

"I hope I'm not frightening you," Rosalie said, after concluding her
elaborate description of her seven murders (the fiancé, his four
friends, and his two guards).

"Thank you for telling me your story," I said. "I don't think I have a
good reason to be afraid *of* you, if that's what you mean."

Rosalie nodded. "Do you understand why I think you should stay human?"
she asked.

I thought about her story, and what relevance she might think it would
have. Surely she had less reason than anyone to value the vulnerability
of humanity, which featured heavily. She didn't seem to regret her
homicides, for which I could hardly blame her either. And so...

"Vampires can't have babies?" I concluded tentatively. And so Rosalie
would never have her precious blond children playing on the lawn...

"Right in one," she said softly. "Do you know where Emmett came from? I
saved him from a bear that was mauling him, and carried him home to
Carlisle -- I didn't think I had the self-control to turn him myself,
without killing him. He has dark curls... and dimples... just like my
friend's little son. I didn't want him to die. I hated this life, and I
was selfish enough to ask Carlisle to save him anyway. And I was lucky.
Emmett is everything I would have asked for, if I'd known myself well
enough to ask for the right things. And he needs me too. *That* part...
I will admit, it worked out better than I could have hoped. But there
will only ever be two of us. We'll never sit together on a porch
somewhere, gray-haired, surrounded by grandchildren.

"You're young, Bella," she said suddenly, intensely, switching modes
from the nostalgia for things that never were and could never be. "You
don't know what you'll want in a decade. Two decades. Ten. It is *rash*,
rash in the extreme, to make such *permanent* choices now. Do you
understand? You have everything I want -- I would trade *everything* to
be *you* and have your choices, and you're choosing *wrong*!"

I nodded, slowly. I had never wanted children very much. They'd seemed
like a vague, future possibility that might manifest if certain other
events fell into place in potentially pleasant, but optional, ways. But
Rosalie *was* right that however well I knew myself now, I did *not*
have reason to believe that I knew what I'd want in my twenties or my
thirties -- whether I spent them human or not. And apparently becoming a
vampire did close off an option that *many* women wanted, and chose to
exercise, and if they happened not to have it through some medical
misfortune, would often spend thousands of dollars to --

Oh.

There was an *obvious* solution.

"Carlisle's a doctor," I said. "He can harvest some eggs before I turn,
and freeze them. Then, later, when I'm ready, if I want children, I can
hire a surrogate. You're right, Rosalie, I don't know how I'm going to
feel later about the idea. You're right that I'm young, and I really
*hadn't* thought about it and I should have and I'm so glad you shared
your experience with me to help me realize that it's important. Part of
having a choice the way I do is that I can also make a *plan*, and I can
plan to still have resources I might want, later. And someday, maybe,
I'll make you an aunt."

Rosalie looked completely bowled over. I didn't know why. She'd been to
medical school -- granted, I didn't know how recently, but surely with
three doctors in the house they did sometimes discuss advances in
medicine from the *seventies*. The existence of the technology couldn't
surprise her that much. Maybe no one ever took her advice, and that was
what puzzled her? Maybe because I *didn't* have to lose the capacity to
have children with vampirism, she resented me?

And then Rosalie lunged forward and before I could shriek or fall off my
chair in shock or fear, she hugged me.

It was a tight hug, but careful -- I didn't think I'd have any bruises
later. Puzzled, but no longer frightened, I hugged her back. She was
cool and unyielding, but somehow managed to be pleasant to hug anyway.

"Thank you," she whispered in my ear.

"You're welcome," I said, scripted, automatic, confused -- what was she
thanking me for? She let me go and sat back, her eyes alight with some
strange pleasure.

"Will you let me help?" Rosalie asked. "With the eggs. I can't -- I
*can't ever* have my own -- but if you let me help -- Bella, please -"

"Of course," I said. That would probably be more comfortable than
Carlisle anyway, for certain parts -- I didn't know *exactly* what egg
harvesting involved, but if it were less intimate than the average
gynecological exam, that would constitute a surprise.

Rosalie hugged me again, a little tighter, a little faster. She released
me again, smiling so beatifically that it made me wonder how I'd ever
thought she was beautiful *frowning* when it was possible for her to
look like *that*. "*Thank you,*" she sighed, and then she got to her
feet and flew up the stairs.

* * * * *

It took only half a minute for Edward to return once Rosalie had gone.
He walked down the stairs as slowly as a dawdling human, looking
preposterously confused. When he got to the table and sat down, he still
looked bewildered. "How did you *do* that?" he marveled.

"Do what?"

"You're Rosalie's new favorite person. I didn't listen to the
conversation -- I put on music and tuned her thoughts and your voices
out, I thought it should be private -- and now her thoughts are all over
the place thinking about synthetic hormones and *baby clothes*, and I
don't know what happened, but she adores you and she's happier than I
think I've seen her in the last decade -- or two. What did you *do?*"

"I didn't expect her to react that strongly," I said. "I just listened
to her story and thought her concern was important to think about, so I
thanked her and said I'd get Carlisle to harvest some eggs before I
turn, and she asked if she could help, and I said yes, and then she went
upstairs. There were," I added as an afterthought, "hugs."

Edward made another one of *those* faces -- full of confused, mixed-up
feelings all fighting over the curve of his mouth and the angle of his
eyebrows. I thought I could detect impressedness and frustration, but I
wasn't sure of either, and there were at least a couple other emotional
combatants. "You are nothing short of astonishing, Bella," he told me.

"Thank you," I said. "Is there anything else I should know?"

He looked heavenward, thoughtful and silent. I waited patiently for him
to marshal his arguments.

"You know that you'll lose all your interest in human food, and that
animal blood tastes comparatively terrible," he said. "You know that you
will be thirsty *all* the time -- that your throat will burn, constantly,
forever, urging you to drink. You know you might not be able to see your
family in person for years, if ever. You know it will probably interrupt
your plans for school and that *one* mistake in your control near a
human means murder. You know if you decide to use those eggs you won't
be able to carry your children yourself. You know you'll have to move
around every few years to avoid detection. You know you'll be seventeen
*forever* -- you won't know how you would have grown up, how you'd have
matured. You know you have to follow the Volturi's laws, whether you
like them or not, or they'll kill you. I don't think anyone's told you,
but you might have guessed, that perfect vampire recall makes it
comparatively much *harder* to remember human experiences. You know that
*I* believe that in becoming a vampire, you'll permanently lose the
opportunity to *truly* live forever, instead of merely living until you
catch fire or are broken into tiny enough pieces that you can't
reassemble yourself. You know that turning consists of three straight
days of incredible pain -- during which, I should add, it's very common
that the turning person begs for death." He reminded me of these things
in a near monotone, wringing the emotion out of each word with great
effort, as though he thought emotions must be meaningless to anyone who
wanted logic to hold a superior place in decision-making.

"*You* know," I replied, when he was done, "that if I never turn, I'll
die. You know that I could catch the flu. Or fall off a cliff. Or be
attacked by five all-too-human monsters. Or be mauled by a bear. I could
suffer brain damage and never be myself again. I could lose the use of
all my limbs in an accident or go blind or have a genetic disease that
will pop up in my twenties and slowly -" Edward looked like I was
stabbing him in the throat with every clause. "You know I'm
*vulnerable,*" I said, summing up instead of listing more horrible fates
that could befall humans. "And if the Volturi ever find out that I
exist, they will kill me -- and probably your entire family -- if I'm not
a vampire or obviously on the fast track to becoming one. I *already*
have to follow their laws whether I like it or not. I *already* face the
loss of everything there is to love about being human -- whenever
something happens to me. And it could be any time; I don't *necessarily*
have gray hair to look forward to." I took a deep breath. "I have notes
on most of my experiences. I can read them when I'm a vampire and
remember them almost as well as I do now. I've lived too far away to see
*one* of my parents at every given time for the entire span of my life
that I can call to memory -- making it both at once will be a little
worse, but only a little. I know that your reasoning about the afterlife
is, as far as I can see or you'll explain or Carlisle can translate,
*bogus*."

I paused for a moment, thinking, and said slowly, "Carlisle's never
killed anyone. You, and Rosalie, have never killed anyone on *impulse* --
and I genuinely *don't* think I'm going to calmly decide to murder
humans. What kind of body count are we looking at for Emmett, Alice,
Esme, and Jasper?"

"Jasper's is easily in the thousands," said Edward harshly. "He spent
eighty years as a non-'vegetarian' vampire. He only came to join us
later, after he met Alice. Alice's count might be similar to mine, or
worse; she didn't see joining our family until the late forties and
until then she was only haphazardly struggling towards living on animals
via her own conscience. Emmett's killed the two humans I told you about,
and slipped up a half a dozen other times. Esme's only made one
mistake."

"And your Denali friends?" I asked implacably.

"All have eaten plenty of humans. Their family came to the vegetarian
lifestyle independently of us," Edward said. "And they're each
considerably older than Jasper, or even Carlisle. I wouldn't be
surprised if any one of them had eaten more people than all of our
family put together."

I pursed my lips. "But Carlisle *never* slipped up, and *never* decided,
outside of a fit of thirst, to kill, the way you or Rosalie did."

Edward nodded.

"Did Carlisle," I hypothesized suddenly, "know that vampires existed
before he became one?"

Edward looked startled. "Yes," he said, blinking. "He lived during the
mid-1600's. His father was an Anglican pastor and enlisted his help
killing witches and werewolves -- and vampires. He was turned by a
vampire he successfully trapped -- he killed two other men and ran off
with a third; Carlisle thinks he was too thirsty to think straight and
didn't mean to turn anyone, but Carlisle was already full of venom and
hid in a root cellar full of rotten potatoes so his father wouldn't find
him. When he was done turning he was so repelled by what he was that he
tried to kill himself several times -- jumping into the ocean, that sort
of thing -- but of course that's very hard for vampires to do. He avoided
humans and eventually discovered he could live on animals."

"Did any of the rest of you, or the Denali coven, even suspect that
vampires might exist beforehand? Skip Alice, I know we have no
information on her," I said. I seized my pencil and jotted down
*witches, werewolves* for follow-up questioning later.

"No," said Edward, after thinking for a moment.

"So," I concluded, "the odds do look very bad if you sample out of all
vampires ever. The only one with a perfect record is Carlisle. Who is
also the only one we know of who had any idea what was going on before
he was bitten. I have *lots* of notice. In fact, I'm in a position to
make a deliberate, non-emergency *choice*. Alice saw me adjusting
*unusually* well -- and that's consistent with the hypothesis that
vampires who knew what to expect are the ones who don't have to act
like 'normal' vampires. Who can anticipate and counter the instincts that
make 'normal' vampires treat humans like snacks."

I went on, to address the last, most fearsome point. Truthfully, I
wanted to edit it out of my model of vampirism altogether. Forget about
the "not fun". Pretend to myself that the three days were merely
*boring* in some way -- paralysis, not pain. But this would not be
honest. I could not expect to make the *best* decision if I pretended
the pain did not exist, when it did.

"Does it seem to you, in your experience," I said, "that vampires
experience *damage* -- mental trauma, flashbacks, phobias, phantom pain,
anything like that -- which is *best* explained by the pain associated
with turning, as opposed to preexisting conditions or other aspects of
being a vampire?" The part afterward -- the part that could last forever
-- that was what mattered most. If everyone escaped truly unscathed...

"No," Edward almost whispered. He had to think about it, but came up
empty.

"Is there a good medical reason why I should be conscious when I'm shot
full of venom?" I asked. "I realize that most methods of knocking me out
won't necessarily last three days, but perhaps I could skip part of it.
Or painkillers? Put me on a generous morphine drip?"

"I don't see why that would interfere," he said quietly.

"If I beg to die while I'm turning, will you actually kill me?" I asked.
"Or even if I don't? Get me dead and zipping off to heaven quickly,
before it's too late -"

"*No!*" roared Edward violently. "No." He repeated it more gently, as
though hoping to erase his previous utterance and replace it with the
moderated version. "Bella, I *don't* want you dead. I want you to live.
I just want you to live -- *properly*. Human."

"I can't go on doing that forever," I murmured. "And every day I walk on
fragile legs and look out on the world with soft eyes and fend off
danger with weak arms, I run the risk of death. I am susceptible to
attack. I can be hurt. I can be killed. Unless you're right about the
afterlife -- and you know I don't think you are -- I can be *destroyed* --
lost forever, *irrecoverable*. If you don't want me dead, you should
want me armored. Edward, I am so unsafe."

He dropped his face into his hands. "I want you to live," he mumbled.

"I *want* to live," I replied, quietly, firmly. "I love being alive. I
love the world and being in it. I want to see and learn *everything*."

He looked up, dropped his hands. Then he lifted one and touched my face.
His palm was cool against my cheek, and smooth. "I could never kill you,
Bella," he said. "I couldn't." Only one emotion was emanating from him
as he said it -- he *needed* me to believe what he said, he *needed* me
to feel safe with him. He poured every ounce of sincerity he could into
his words, begging me with his silken voice to believe them.

I had an instant's impulse to make a remark about how he was all too
eager to *let* me die, if only at the hand of old age -- but I wasn't
sure he was so eager, anymore, now that I'd forced his emotional
conflict over the problem to the surface. Maybe he had romanticized
death by old age in some way he couldn't with injury or sickness. But I
couldn't stay safe from the latter, less idealized trips to the grave
while I was human. They were facts of human life.

And so I picked up my hand, and touched Edward's cheek in a symmetrical
gesture. He closed his eyes and sucked in a breath.

"Edward," I said, "will you help me live?"

Edward nodded.

* * * * *

Jessica was thrilled to pieces about the opportunity to gossip when I
told her, between Trig and Spanish, that Edward and I were "an item" (I
decided to use those exact words). I injected enough squeal into my
voice to give credibility to the "sickeningly inseparable couple"
demonstration I'd be giving for the next several months. Jessica wanted
every possible detail about our date on Saturday, excruciating precision
about how we'd spent Monday afternoon, and rather intrusive levels of
insight into how I felt about him. I placated her with tidbits -- named
the restaurant we'd been to, said I thought his sisters and parents
liked me at least and left her to ruminate about what this implied about
his brothers -- and then pretended interest in weather-related Spanish
vocabulary.

After Spanish, Edward sidled up to me while Jessica and I walked to
lunch. "Bella," he said, in his most charming tones, and he offered me
his arm. I linked elbows with him, and then turned my head just a bit to
wink at Jessica, who looked about ready to explode from excitement. She
broke into an outright run and careened headlong into the cafeteria.
"Mike! Lauren! Angela!" I could hear her calling out before the door
shut behind her. I could still make out her strident voice, but not
individual words.

Edward and I continued at a more sedate pace. "Is she telling everybody
who's got ears, just as planned?" I asked.

"You want me to check?" Edward asked.

"Listen, don't read," I said. "She's yelling in a semi-public space;
whatever she's saying isn't meant to be private."

"Yes, she's telling everyone," he confirmed. "You'll sit with us today?"

I nodded. "I should probably sit with Jessica and the others at least,
say, once a week," I said. "I don't want to completely fall out of the
circle."

"I suppose I could join you at their table," he proposed. "Imagine the
stir."

"Jessica would have fun with that," I agreed, and we reached the door.
"But today I think I should let her gossip without breathing down her
neck."

"Agreed. And Rosalie wants to talk your ear off about the drug regimen
she's going to put you on," Edward said. "Will you visit again this
afternoon?"

"Only if I can expect to get some homework done at your house," I
laughed. "I had to stay up a bit late last night getting everything for
today finished. Somehow when I go to that house I find myself occupied
by talking to all the nifty people who live in it." Edward made a show
of buying my lunch for me, which made Jessica eep from two tables away.
We sat together at the vampire table. Edward unlinked elbows and draped
his freed arm ever so casually over my shoulders. He looked smug,
somehow, when he did it. I supposed this made some sense. I was still...
sort of... pretending for the benefit of the humans watching us; Edward
didn't need to pretend, he only needed to act on his reality. And I
could well imagine that he'd like that.

"Bella!" exclaimed Rosalie once I'd sat down. "I ordered everything you
need. The hospital here didn't have it all but it wasn't hard to get and
it's on its way and you can get started on Friday or Saturday. The whole
thing will take a few weeks. I made Alice look and she said you don't
need to worry about any complications, but I printed out a pamphlet for
you of everything anyway, here." She shoved it across the table at me.
"Will you be able to keep the meds hidden from your father? You have to
go on the Pill first and then there's some injections you need to
self-administer and I don't think he really needs to know what's going
on. And we're going to need to do some blood tests -- well," Rosalie
winced, "*Carlisle* should probably do the blood tests, to be really
safe, but I will be able to handle most everything else. Like the
ultrasounds. Those I can do."

She was *very* excited about this. "Friday, sounds good," I said.
"Charlie doesn't go through my stuff. I don't think he'll find anything
-- Alice?" I asked, turning to the littlest vampire.

"Looks clear," Alice said after a moment. Rosalie sat back, smug, and
closed her eyes. Alice added, "I don't see any *complications* but that
doesn't mean you won't get side effects -- you won't need to miss school
or anything, and probably no humans will be able to tell anything's
wrong if you're careful."

"And a good thing the going is to be so smooth, too," murmured Edward
mirthfully. "Jessica has just expressed the opinion that she thinks
we're going to have at least six children."

I choked on my soda. "Jessica," I said, after recovering the ability to
breathe and dabbing my face with a napkin, "has exceeded all
expectations as a fountain of exaggerated gossip. I'll need to buy her a
very nice birthday present."

"I think she's partly motivated by the desire to get Mike Newton to stop
fixating on you," Edward said. His tone was light, but I thought I heard
his teeth grinding a little. "I couldn't help but pick up her memory of
the conversation where you tried to set them up -- that *was* what you
had in mind, wasn't it? She doesn't seem to have quite noticed that you
were doing it on purpose, but it was clear enough to me from the words
you used."

"Yes," I admitted. "That was the idea. How's it working?"

"As well as I suppose could be expected. She's still hoping he'll make
the first move, though."

"Of course," I sighed. "Well, the original point was to deflect Mike --
mind, he might be cute with Jessica, but that wasn't the important part.
And Jessica's handling that just as well without taking him off my hands
directly, I suppose. Making it known that I'm off the market."

"So I'm a little confused," Emmett said. "Are you and Edward *actually*
'an item'," (he made exaggerted air quotes to accompany the phrase), "or
are you just telling everybody that because it's part of your plan?
Which is a cool plan, by the way. Think we should go to Scandinavia or
something? They say Finnish is hard to learn. Bet I'm fluent first,
Rose." He jostled Rosalie with his elbow and she smirked.

"You're good at languages because you have the mind of a child, Emmett,"
Alice said, so brightly that it took me a split second to notice that
this was not quite a compliment. Emmett took a little longer, but just a
little, and then he tossed the pasta salad that was his prop for the day
at Alice's face. She wasn't even looking in his direction when she
picked up her tray to shield herself from the projectile.

"Scandinavia might work," I said. "We can go look at fjords."

"Hey, answer my other question," protested Emmett. Alice produced a
napkin and smeared off the mayonnaise that had coated her tray, then
wiped the pasta salad bits back onto their original plate.

I huffed. "It's important to the plan that, by the time I have to tell
everyone we've eloped, it seem characteristic of us," I said. "That's
why I told Jessica the way I did."

Emmett considered this for a second, then realized that it wasn't an
answer to his original inquiry either. "Hey..."

Edward's arm, still around my shoulders, squeezed me protectively. "You
don't need to make up your mind now," he murmured to me, and he shot
Emmett a look. The giant vampire -- the more I looked at Emmett, the
odder it was that he could pass for a high-schooler; did people think
he'd repeated grades or what? -- grumbled but didn't push it.

It was good of Edward to deflect his brother -- even though Edward must
have been dying to know my answer too. It couldn't be comfortable for
him -- none of this could. I wished, suddenly, that *I* could read minds
-- his in particular -- to sift through the knots in his head that caused
those overcomplicated faces he made. He wanted me alive, he wanted me
human; he wanted me to love him, he wanted me not to be put on the spot
about it; he wanted to follow Alice's instructions to go *slow*, but he
was having plenty of fun participating in our showy exhibition of public
affection... On some oddly timed impulse, he lifted his hand from my arm
and stroked my hair. I could barely feel the cold of his fingertips
against my scalp. He was very gentle, very careful -- how hard was it for
him to touch me without hurting me? Was fine motor control lost with the
acquisition of super-strength? It didn't seem like it, but he was so
timid...

"You're not squeamish about needles, are you, Bella?" Rosalie asked
suddenly.

"Uh -- I'm a little squeamish about *blood*, but not needles per se. I
should be able to handle the injections, I think, and I can close my
eyes while Carlisle does the blood tests. I think. I'm not sure." I
hesitated, then said, "If I'm wrong, then I *might* want Jasper to help
-"

"No," said Edward at once. I looked up at him expectantly.

"That wouldn't be a good idea," said Alice softly. Jasper was scowling,
and he took an angry swig from his water bottle. Like he was an
alcoholic, and he kept drinking his surrogate liquor, knowing with every
taste that it wasn't what he wanted...

"*Oh*," I said. Okay. No broken human skin near Jasper. That must have
been why Rosalie hadn't suggested he be the next to go to medical
school...

I resolved, again, for the thousandth time, that I must *never* slip up
as a vampire. Never. *Not once*. Maybe there were good reasons that even
Alice and Emmett hadn't acquired degrees in medicine. Only Carlisle's
perfect record, Rosalie's bloodless murders, Edward's unbroken
control... those were the only histories that preceded the ability to
tolerate proximity to blood, and there were so many ways humans could be
made to bleed.

"How do you manage as well as you *do*?" I asked, trying to make my
voice gentle and the question general, to avoid hurting Jasper. "People
must get paper cuts, fall down and scrape their knees open, pick at
hangnails a little too much -- if nothing else, a good fraction of the
girls are going to be having periods at any given time." The last bit
made Emmett snigger; Rosalie rolled her eyes, but there was a flash of
envy on her face. I regretted mentioning in front of her that every
human female in the school had something she desperately wanted, and had
lost.

"Alice and I can give some advance warning, before the smell hits,"
Edward murmured to me. "Alice can often get information far enough ahead
of time that we can make sure not to be hungry on the wrong days. Not
always," he said wryly. I remembered: his eyes had been pure black the
day I'd first arrived. "We don't come to school in hunting mode. And we
can get away with suddenly leaving class, sometimes -- our grades are all
perfect in spite of our skipping school on sunny days, and so we get a
certain amount of leeway." He coughed -- this had to be solely for
effect, to signal what a gentleman he was, but he did it anyway -- and
continued: "The last item you mentioned isn't as much of a problem as
you might imagine. That blood is... 'dead', in a way. It's only a little
worse than normal."

That seemed a little *convenient*, but since Jasper didn't seem to have
a history of devouring high schoolers during their time of the month --
or any other time -- I took his word for it. And I decided to ask Alice
or Esme *privately*, later, if there were any particular products that
would do a better or worse job of making me unlikely to be the latest
slip-up in the remaining months I needed to spend dealing with that
issue.

"So," Emmett said cheerfully. "Squeamish about blood, Bella? How do
*you* deal with..."

Rosalie kicked him, and I made a face. "Doesn't seem to be your day to
get your questions answered, Emmett," I muttered.

"Seems not," he said, agreeably enough. "It's funny, though, you want to
be a vampire so bad and you're scared of blood."

"It's the smell I don't care for," I said. "Like rust, and salt -- I
don't imagine it smells like that to any vampires, even ones who used to
hate blood."

"I wonder if that *would* help, though," mused Alice. "I see you near
humans without even looking like you *want* to eat them, with bright red
newborn eyes -- and I heard you guessing about it yesterday, and that
makes some sense, but even Carlisle avoided humans early on. What if
blood still doesn't seem appetizing to you, later?"

"Well," I said, "when I'm a vampire, I will definitely tell you all
about how my thoughts on blood change, Alice."

She got what I meant, and scrunched up her face. "Nope, I'm wrong," she
said. "You describe it like you sense it normally, for a vampire."

"That's weird," I muttered. "Not weird that I'd react normally -- weird
that you can see things like that. I mean, now that we already know, I'm
not likely to bother taking a minute to describe it to you later, am I?
But you saw it anyway."

"Being psychic would be *so* much less useful if no one could use the
information," Alice said, opening her eyes. "Maybe I'm just seeing what
would happen conditional on my not telling anyone. I don't see you
having that conversation with me *anymore*, since the possibility that I
didn't tell anyone no longer exists."

"But you must often look at things having already firmly decided to
share what you see," I began, and then the bell rang. I ate my banana on
the way to Biology, having been distracted enough by the conversation to
barely pick at my lunch.

Witches and Werewolves
======================

I wondered, during Biology as the teacher nattered on interminably about
cell walls, how much it was going to hurt the
Bella-and-Edward-are-Together Show that I'd changed lab partners. Angela
and Mike at least knew I'd done it deliberately. I didn't know what they
thought my motives really were -- Mike at least had seen the way Edward
had first looked at me.

And it would be just *like* Mike to jump to conclusions about that,
decide I was in an abusive relationship, and think I must need *him*
available to turn to... I hoped Jessica would distract him enough. If
Mike had *any* sense -- or, if he lacked sense in certain possible ways --
he wouldn't be thrown off by a sappy public image: there was no actual
reason it couldn't coexist with dreadful mistreatment behind the scenes.

It wouldn't just be annoying to me if Mike got too nosy -- he could get
himself killed or have to be vamped, if he found anything out.
(Although... just what surveillance mechanisms did the Volturi have,
anyway? Did they have an Alice-equivalent among their guard, or
something less effective? If someone bugged the Cullens' house while
they were all out, saw some things, figured others out -- could they go
to the grave never telling, without being hunted down?)

I crossed my fingers. I didn't think this would accomplish anything, but
it was a way to put my hope out in the world without writing anything
down, and I knew what it meant whereas Alice would likely be puzzled.
Although perhaps, I reflected, I should warn the vampires anyway -- but
Mike hadn't shown signs of being insufferable about it, let alone
dangerously inquisitive. Yet. I'd make Wednesday my sit-with-the-humans
day and check in... or I could let Edward, just him, know, and get him
to spy...

I made a face, tilting my head forward first so my hair would get in the
way of Angela or anyone else noticing. Edward had such a *convenient*
power. It was just outrageously tempting to ask him to use it when I
wasn't even sure of its necessity. Alice had been right -- show me a
mystery and I *would* poke, poke, poke at it until I figured it out or I
was *dead*. I bit my lip: I would not ask Edward to invade Mike's
privacy based on vague concerns that I could probably check up on
without needing any telepathy at all. I valued *my* privacy so much -- it
would be the absolute height of conceit to assume Mike's was less
important.

On that subject, it was about time for me to pin Alice in place long
enough to see about getting myself some notebooky privacy, too. I'd
visit that afternoon and try to catch her then -- but after that,
homework, definitely homework. Negative academic attention -- from
teachers or from Charlie -- was the last thing I needed.

I supported my chin with my hand, let jargon about cell anatomy wash
over me, and wondered what fjords looked like up close.

* * * * *

I did get Alice to conduct a quick experiment with me as soon as I got
to their house. Although vampires could see in the dark, she didn't have
the ability to move her vantage point quite as she pleased. She *tended*
not to see things as though she were peering out from under beds or
behind picture frames. It was more like she was standing, at her normal
height with her normal visual acuity (except for uncertainty-induced
blurriness), in whatever place she looked at.

It wasn't *impossible* that she would be able to see what I typed if I
put my keyboard under something opaque and turned off my monitor, but it
almost certainly wouldn't happen by accident, and she promised not to
try for those visions outside of dire emergencies. (I made her specify,
in this promise, that "dire emergencies" were those where she could see
likely futures in which the situation was explained to me and I agreed
that she had to look at the writing. I wasn't sure enough about Alice's
judgment, this early on in our acquaintance, that I was prepared to
leave it entirely up to her.) So I could type in privacy, and if I
draped a thick blanket over myself and pressed my nose right up against
the backlit screen, I could re-read later in privacy, too.

The notebooks were not as easy to address. I touch-typed, but if I tried
to write longhand without being able to see, I wound up with illegible
scribbles that meandered all over the page. And if I ducked under a
blanket that was thin enough to admit lamplight, it would also be thin
enough that a vampire could see through it pretty effectively. They had
a better-than-human ability to separate out the noise of an intermediate
layer of material from the objects behind it. A vampire would have no
trouble telling what was going on behind a screen door, even a painted
one with a distracting picture on the near side, as long as there were
enough intact little perforations. A human would see the screen and stop
there and ignore anything spotted through the holes.

So I decided to continue writing anything private in confusing personal
code, and use my computer more, when it was available. This plan had the
weak point of relying on my shifty, wobbly memory to fill in the gaps
that the shorthand inevitably left, but it was only for a few months --
after that, I expected to need no notebooks at all.

After I'd had this discussion with Alice, I set up at the kitchen table
and did homework, only half-concentrating on the worksheets and the
index cards for my presentation in Government. Edward sat with me. He
was good about not *doing* anything to distract me; he only watched. No
one could hold still like a vampire. But he still had that property,
whatever it was, that made my eyes slide towards him; whenever he
shifted position to better have a look at what I was doing, my ears
perked up to listen.

He was sitting close enough that I could smell his breath -- it didn't
smell like a human's breath at all. It didn't smell *wet* in the same
way -- it was almost floral. That was *peculiar* -- it had to be the venom
I was smelling, but why would it smell like lilacs? Or not lilacs -- I
wasn't sure what flower to compare it to. Something nice, anyway. But
why? It wasn't as though vampires needed to *attract* prey. They just
needed to catch someone alone, somewhere inconspicuous, and once they
did that, the result was already overdetermined by their power and
speed. Vampires were certainly ridiculously overengineered, and I
couldn't wait to play with all the new abilities...

With effort, I wrenched my attention back to the rectangle of cardstock
I was trying to transfer notes to. *The executive branch*, it said
already in my awful handwriting. I made a small grumbling noise and
completed the sentence. Perfect recall was going to be mine in a few
short months. And I was learning pointless things I wouldn't remember in
two weeks, let alone a hundred years, because I was seventeen and that
meant I had to go to high school and spit back the right information in
the right format at the right time.

"Don't they assign *you* any homework?" I asked, pulling out a new index
card.

"I can do it at night," he said. The unspoken reason was *so I don't
have to lose any time with you*. I was learning to read Edward's face
and tone fairly well, at least when his feelings were expressed one at a
time, not in a tangle.

"I can't be that interesting to watch. I *am* me and *I'm* bored out of
my skull," I muttered, writing a note on the new index card.

"You're the one who wanted to do homework," he said lightly. "I'm not
bored, though, Bella."

What had put me on Edward's list of possible soulmates? I took another
card and almost wrote that question on it instead of the presentation
note that belonged there. I stuck my tongue out at the card, wrote the
correct note on it, and then pretended not to know what to write on the
next one. What was it about me? He couldn't have known instantly, or he
would have acted differently when he'd first seen me. So it probably had
nothing to do with my looks. That was comforting, on some level.

I'd thought it correlated with the potential for extra vampire powers,
which correlated with actually being turned, to explain how many
vampires seemed to pair off without eating their mates first. Or
possibly beauty, which was another selection criterion. I didn't think
of myself as pretty, and didn't trust my parents' evaluations to the
contrary a bit. But even if Edward's feelings could be explained away by
magic, Mike's and Eric's couldn't, and it was pushing it to speculate
that they'd only been interested because I was new. So maybe I was
pretty.

I wrote the next note, pulled out another card, and sighed. I was
probably decent-looking enough to make a pretty *vampire*, at least -- I
was looking forward to that for so many reasons, and that was a trivial
one, but it still existed.

I wrote a note. I grabbed a new card. I hated Government. I normally
felt neutral about it -- the material was undertaken laboriously slowly,
but at least it was new to me, and the teacher was reasonably competent.
But why did it have to assign me a presentation when I wanted so badly
to have time to think? I supposed the teacher had no way of knowing --
and *shouldn't* have had any way of knowing -- when these times were.

I wrote another note. I had a little stack of fifteen cards after I
added it to the pile. That might be enough. Dealing with my impromptu
public speaking issues was on my to-hack list anyway; going on sparser
notes would be a potentially useful step towards that. I was
rationalizing, of course -- I just wanted to be done with homework. But I
really, *really* wanted to be done with homework, and so as long as
there was some way it could be made not to bite me in the rear later, I
might as well give in to that want.

"Right, I'm done," I muttered to myself, and started putting school
supplies away.

"What would you like to do with the rest of your day?" Edward asked,
smiling. I looked at him. Radiating from his face was the undiluted
desire to see to it that I got exactly the Tuesday I wanted. It was
gratifying, mostly -- and still a little weird, but I was getting used to
it.

"So," I said, sitting back in my chair and recalling a note to myself
from the previous day, "witches and werewolves, hm?"

* * * * *

"Witches and we- Oh. I mentioned those when I told you about Carlisle,"
remembered Edward. "Well -- yes, they exist. There are actually two kinds
of werewolves that I know about, and every witch is different."

"Besides two kinds of werewolves, witches, and vampires, is there
anything else mythical that I should know about?" I asked.

"Not as far as I know," said Edward. "But I might not have seen
everything. Anyway, witches. That's the technical term for a human with
a power -- the kind that turning into a vampire generally intensifies."

"I didn't know witches were the sorts of things that would have
technical terminology about them," I said, and then I sat up suddenly.
"Wait a minute, that would make me a witch, wouldn't it?"

"It would," agreed Edward. "Although you wouldn't have been the sort of
witch that used to be burnt at the stake if you'd lived earlier -- your
power seems only to protect you from mine, and maybe others. It doesn't
seem to do anything otherwise detectable."

"Were you a witch? Jasper?"

"I don't think either of us would have qualified. Extra vampire powers
don't *have* to be preceded by witchcraft. My ability to read people and
Jasper's charisma proved useful, but were quite natural when we were
human. Alice was probably a witch, but we don't know."

I nodded. "And the two kinds of werewolves? Do they have other names, to
tell them apart?"

"The Eurasian variety," said Edward, "are sometimes also called Children
of the Moon. They're much closer to myth than the other sort. Silver
won't do anything -- that's a human myth to make it sound to one another
like they'd have a fighting chance, if they ran into one. But they do
infect humans by biting, and change during the full moon. They're
fierce, solitary creatures in wolf form, not at all the sort of animal
you'd want to meet."

"Are they normal humans during the rest of the month?" I asked.

"I think so. I haven't actually encountered any of them. They're extinct
now, or close to it -- Caius doesn't care for them a bit and had them
hunted down. I only know what Carlisle's told me, and he learned it all
from the Volturi."

"Hunted to extinction with, not silver, presumably -- what?"

Edward tilted his head back a little and laughed. "With members of the
Volturi guard, of course. I'm sure there were casualties on their side.
Werewolves -- either sort -- can give vampires a run for our money in a
fight. But a transformed Child of the Moon isn't very intelligent. That
is, they're smarter than normal wolves, but they don't retain their
human intellects. A group of vampires bent on hunting one down could
accomplish it. Especially if they managed to work out who it was as a
human. Then it would be quite easy." He kept switching tenses -- I
supposed that made sense when talking about the traits of a species that
might or might not be extinct.

"Okay. What about the other kind? Where do they live?" I prompted.

"Not far from here, actually," Edward said, "but I doubt there are any
of them left, either. We were here seventy years ago and met a pack of
them. They don't like vampires, but we were able to convince them we
didn't prey on humans, and made a treaty -- we stay off their land and
don't bite anyone, and they don't attack us unless we're on their turf.
But it takes vampire presence to activate the genes that let them
shapeshift. The pack that was active seventy years ago is likely all
inactive now, or dead. And we haven't been close enough to their land to
trigger any new changes."

"Where do you mean by "not far from here"?" I asked, aware that vampires
might easily conceive very differently of distances.

"The Quileute reservation, La Push," Edward said. "They probably still
tell the stories, even if the actual wolves are all gone now."

"That's *quite* close," I said. It was just over a half an hour away --
driving like a *normal* person. "I know some people from La Push."

"You do?" Edward asked, looking interested.

"Charlie's old friends with a guy from there called Billy Black. He sold
Charlie my truck. I used to play with Billy's daughters sometimes,
Rachel and Rebecca, when I was little. I've been out of touch with them
lately, though. I think they had a younger brother. I can't think what
his name was, though."

"I don't know either," shrugged Edward. "They might be descendants of
one of the wolves we met, though -- same surname."

"So how do the -- do they have their own name besides "wolves"?" Edward
shook his head. "The Quileute wolves, then, how do they work?"

He explained. They were indistinguishable from normal humans until the
gene was activated by vampire presence. Wolves were quite fast and
strong enough to kill vampires, at least when they worked as a pack.
They also healed with extraordinary rapidity, and retained some of these
powers even in their human forms. When the gene woke up and did its
work, a gradual buildup of emotion eventually provoked the first shift,
which, while potentially dangerous to people around the wolf (as they
expanded quite a bit in size very rapidly) was not harmful to its
subject. Shifting continued to be provoked by lost temper until more
practice managing both shifting and temper accumulated. After that, it
was possible to "quit one's wolf" and go back to being a relatively
normal human. A Quileute wolf who *didn't* quit, also didn't age.

"What makes you so sure the ones you met seventy years ago aren't still
alive, then?" I asked.

"They have secrets to keep, too," Edward said. "If they're alive,
they've probably faked their deaths and moved away. The tribe council
likely knows, or at least has enough details to recognize the events if
anyone should activate now. But arbitrary Quileutes, like your friends,
almost certainly think of the wolves as mere legends."

I nodded, and sighed, dropping my chin onto my arms where they lay
folded across the table. "Why -- *why* -- don't people want to be
immortal? Why don't people *care* that everyone is dying? Why do they
want to cure *some* deadly things like cancer and malaria and then the
Quileutes had a *cure for aging* handed to them on a silver *platter*
and they gave it up? Is everyone in the world but me *actually suicidal*
and I just never noticed because they aren't all taking razors to their
wrists?"

"It's natural," murmured Edward.

"Cancer's natural."

"Cancer isn't inevitable," he said.

"Neither is *aging!*" I cried, sitting up and gesturing emphatically at
Edward. "You're going to be seventeen forever. *I'm* going to be
seventeen forever once we've got everything sorted out."

"What, do you want to turn everyone into a vampire?" asked Edward.

"I told you already, I can't. I can't turn everyone or it'll be entirely
counterproductive," I said, folding my arms and resting my head on them
again. "The Volturi want to be immortal, I suppose, but they don't want
to *share*, do they?"

Edward reached out to stroke my hair. It was a soothing, regular motion.

"I'm tempted to find Rachel and Rebecca's phone numbers. And their
brother's. And call them all up, and demand that they come visit right
away, and have *you* all sitting there when they show up, so they can
live forever -- it wouldn't be as bad as turning them without permission,
I think, since if they were *insane* and decided they *didn't* want
superpowers and the chance to live forever they could quit their wolves.
If they were *insane*," I growled.

He kept stroking my hair. I closed my eyes and tried to calm down,
concentrating on the cool, careful touch. "Is there," I asked, after
having managed some success at this task, "any reason I *shouldn't*
collect all the Quileutes I can, here on 'your turf' where you're
allowed to be, and activate them?"

"Immature werewolves are dangerous," Edward said softly. "The connection
between their transformations and their tempers means the latter is
unstable until they learn control. They aren't *as* likely to kill as
newborn vampires, but it is not out of the question, and injuries
wouldn't be surprising."

I inhaled as deeply as I could, held the breath until it hurt, and then
let it out slowly. "We could set up a werewolf summer camp," I said.
"Put them someplace away from anyone who can't heal like they can, help
them..."

"The presence of vampires would *not* help them. They instinctively see
us as enemies," Edward said. "Vampires and Quileute wolves do not smell
pleasant to one another or serve as comforting presences for one
another."

"Jasper," I said, desperately. It was a sign that I was very serious,
wanting to bring in Jasper... "He could activate them, then help them
stay calm until they could do it themselves, until they were safe."

"Maybe," said Edward, surprising me. He was still petting my hair. "That
might work. But the Volturi don't know about the Quileutes, I think...
and are unlikely to come to know about them, unless Aro reads one of us,
which might not happen for centuries if we fly under their radar. At
least, as long as they remain as unobtrusive as they presently are."

I swore. Edward did not, apparently, share Angela's philosophical
dislike of strong language.

And then I swore again. "Edward, you said the treaty is that you won't
*bite* a human. And seventy years ago, if you were rounding, could have
been after Carlisle turned Emmett. He's the most recent turning. Was it?

"Yes," he said. "Does rounding count as lying? I don't understand."

"Have any of the slip-ups in the family been since then?"

He shook his head, slowly.

"Will it break the treaty if you turn me? Even if you don't do it here?"

Edward was silent. "Technically," he said. "Yes."

I thought quickly. "Does the treaty say *bite* -- that exact word?"

"It does," he confirmed. His hand had stopped moving over my head and
was resting on the back of my neck.

"Can you turn me without actually biting me? Alice said something about
crying into an open wound..."

"She did? That's a bit of a fanciful way of putting it. We *have* venom
in our eyes... but we don't really *cry*. You'd have to collect it over
a long time, and get it into the bloodstream indirectly. I can't think
of anything less efficient. The mouth is the better source."

"But it doesn't absolutely have to be a bite. You could fill a syringe
and inject it, maybe."

"Yes," he said. "Yes, that would work."

"All right," I said, letting out another sigh. "So if I figure out a way
to activate some wolves without getting the Volturi's attention, I won't
necessarily have a war on my hands over my having been turned."

"Ambitious, aren't you," he remarked in a soft, almost admiring tone.

I lifted my head, and he drew his hand back to the table in front of
him. "It shouldn't *be* ambitious," I said. "It shouldn't be uncommon or
special or rebellious or anything like that to want people to live. If I
were holding down a job and giving half my income to oncology
researchers or something, I wouldn't be *ambitious*. Altruistic -- plenty
that -- but not *ambitious*."

"You know, if you keep saying this sort of thing, eventually I might
agree with you," Edward said lightly.

"I can't help but see that as a good result," I said, fussing with the
end of my sleeve. "It looks from here like you don't have any sound
reasons for believing the way you do -- just tangled-up emotions that
won't let you hear what I'm saying as though I'm talking clear English.
If I can get through to you in spite of that by saying that death is bad
a lot, well, then, I guess I'll say it a lot. Death is bad. Death is
bad. Death is bad."

"It really bothers you, what I said about souls," he observed in a low
voice.

"It did, I guess, at the time. Now I'm just sort of *generally* bothered
by *everyone* who wants to tolerate death like it's their
annoying-but-harmless old uncle who comes round every Thanksgiving and
without whom the family would be incomplete, or something. It's not
harmless. And there's no ineradicable reason it has to exist at all."

"Let's talk about something else," said Edward, breaking eye contact and
frowning.

"I'll dole it out in small doses, if you need me to, but I'm not apt to
quit," I warned him. "Ask Alice. You'd have to stay away from me
entirely to avoid hearing about it."

"I could never stay away," he said, looking back into my eyes. "I
thought at first that I should... but Alice was right, when she told me
I wasn't strong enough to do that."

"Good," I whispered.

* * * * *

I got home late -- well after Charlie had already given up on a fresh
dinner and microwaved himself some leftovers. "Hey, Bells," he said when
I let myself in. He turned off the TV and turned half-around on the sofa
to look at me. "Where were you?" He didn't say it accusingly or as
though he were disappointed; he didn't think I'd been spraying graffiti
on buildings or knocking over mailboxes, and wasn't upset that I hadn't
been home to cook one night out of the week. He was taking an interest
in my life.

I had taken a little time to think through how Charlie modeled me, and
accordingly, what the best way to convince him that I was plausibly
going to elope with Edward in the summer would be. And so I had a script
ready.

"Oh," I said, with an absent sort of smile on my face, "I was with
Edward."

Charlie raised an eyebrow. "Edward Cullen?"

I nodded rapidly. "Yes, you met him on Saturday when he came by..."

"Studying Biology again?" asked Charlie, although he didn't sound like
this was his first guess.

I shook my head, carelessly letting a lock of hair fall into my face and
then tucking it behind my ear again. "We did some homework," I said
slowly (well, between the two of us, some homework had gotten done),
"but mostly we were just *talking*..." I let my eyes fly wide open, and
said, "I mean, I'm friends with his sisters. I hung out with Alice some
too, that was the first thing I did when I got to his house."

"I see," muttered Charlie. And he didn't pry. I hadn't expected him to.
But I thought I'd pretty effectively planted the idea. Charlie would
probably grill Edward a little bit the next time he was by the house to
pick me up for some outing. Sometime during the ensuing week I would
have to casually drop the word "boyfriend" in Charlie's earshot --
possibly on the phone to Jessica or Angela.

I smiled brightly at him, promised that there would be dinner at
dinnertime on Thursday, and trotted up the stairs.

* * * * *

Sort-of-pretending with Edward was more fun than it had any business
being.

He was imaginative about it, never indulging the temptation to
repetitiveness that could have given us away. He snuck up on me between
classes one morning, dipped me, and planted a kiss on my forehead. He
joined me and my human friends at lunch when I sat with them instead of
the vampires, sending Jessica into such paroxysms that I thought she
might need to be carried off to the nurse. He walked me from the
cafeteria to the science building every day, linking arms or holding
hands or putting his arm around me. He did all of this with a proud,
smug expression on his face, to the point where onlookers must have
thought he'd landed a movie star or a supermodel if they looked only at
him and not at me.

He sent a perfect little paper airplane towards me during Biology, timed
so the teacher couldn't see -- but Angela could, when it made its landing
right on my open textbook. She didn't lean over and demand to see the
note written on it, but I showed her anyway, with a
not-entirely-affected grin on my face: he'd transcribed flowery poems
onto the sheet before folding it up. Angela smiled and patted my hand in
a supportive, friendly manner. I folded up the paper into a square and
kept it in my pocket.

I was not quite so creative, and found it much easier to play the part
of the infatuated girl swept off her feet. I giggled more than I was
accustomed to giggling, and leaned towards him when he touched me --
which was whenever I was within arm's reach. I accepted and often wore
his jacket. (He wasn't bothered by the February chill, and only owned
the jacket for aesthetic and disguise reasons; but it was a visible
token of his affection I could put on.) I spent a lot of time looking up
at him through my eyelashes, admiring the planes of his face and trying
to seem adoring.

There was one omission: I hadn't quite had the temerity to ask about the
finer points of vampire venom as it applied to kissing, and without that
information wasn't prepared to attempt to kiss him on the lips. He was
quite free with them elsewhere: my neck and forehead and nose and cheeks
and the top of my head and my fingers did not lack for attention. But
the longer he went without taking that liberty, or even asking if he
might, the more I suspected that there must be some risk of premature
infection associated with it -- and so I let it lie. I was quite suffused
with affection as it was and in a few months I would not be at any such
risk.

Away from school, it was different -- although depending on how one
counted, it wasn't necessarily any less romantic.

Edward *was* the reason for the piano on the dais. Rosalie also played;
actually, all of them *could* play, the way anyone with perfect recall
living in a piano-occupied house would pick up the skill. But Edward was
the musician. He *composed*. He wrote a song for me. I suspected it
might be about some more specific subject than me, Bella Swan, in my
entirety -- but he declined to specify, and I didn't press the subject.

He took me out to lunch most weekends. He knew I wanted to be home to
cook dinner for Charlie more days than not, but when I consented to be
whisked away in the evenings, whisked I was. He lingered at my house
after taking me home from these outings. Charlie approved quietly of
Edward, who called him "sir" and behaved very deferentially. There were
fewer flagrant displays of couplehood when we were there, but Edward did
an excellent job of making it look as though he *wished* there were
more. That might have been for Charlie's benefit -- or not.

Whenever I was within arm's reach, he touched me, with or without an
audience. I went about dressed more warmly than the weather called for
to be comfortable with the chilly caresses. He was always gentle, always
cautious, forever moving my hair out of my face or stroking my cheek or
kissing the back of my neck. He acted as though he was taking advantage
of a rare, prized opportunity every time, but he did it so often that it
didn't feel that way to me. I felt like half of a comfortable,
longstanding couple -- and I *liked* it, far more than I'd have expected
if I had been polled in the fall. It was easy, it was soothing. My
parents were neither of them very cuddly people -- and Charlie less so
than Renée. I wasn't used to much physical contact beyond handshakes
and, sometimes, hugs on special occasions. But it was nice to have -- to
have *without* having to awkwardly say, "Hug?" to a relative before he
or she got on an airplane or any similarly forced direct request. I
could just sit next to Edward and lean on him if I felt like it, and get
a kiss in the part of my hair as a bonus.

Not all of the shivering I did had to do with the winter *or* Edward's
low body temperature.

Valentine's Day was a Monday. Edward managed to leave a small item at my
seat in every one of my classes, including the mat in the corner of the
gym where I did my yoga -- he must have ducked into the classrooms
between bells to leave them. By lunch, I'd acquired two thematically
appropriate packets of candy, a sparkly bracelet that... *probably*
wasn't covered in *rhinestones*... and a CD accompanied by a note
stating that it contained recordings of Edward's compositions. I slipped
the bracelet over my left hand. When I arrived at the vampire table for
lunch, Edward's eyes rested on it for a moment, and he had a look of
satisfaction on his face when he looked up at me. "I wasn't sure if that
was going to be too much," he said.

"It's beautiful," I said. "It's entirely too much, I would have told you
not to buy it, but I'm not planning to give it back." I jangled it on my
wrist a little. "No more jewelry, though, or Jessica will have a stroke.
The candy was delicious and I can't wait to listen to the music. Thank
you."

"No more jewelry *ever*?" he asked, like he was asking permission to do
something far more self-indulgent than shower me with gifts. My right
hand was occupied with stabbing a fork into my meatloaf, but he took my
left hand and clasped it in both of his.

"Nothing remotely this nice for the next two months," I said, "at
least." I tilted my head to one side and quickly looked at Alice's and
Rosalie's ears: neither had them pierced. "If I get my ears pierced,
will they heal closed when I turn?" I asked.

"If you're not wearing earrings at the time, they will," Rosalie said.
"If you have earrings in, they might stay. But then you have to count on
that being in fashion for hundreds and hundreds of years."

"True. I've done without this long. And there are clips and magnets -- I
guess magnets would rely less on the earlobe being easily compressible."

"I have loads of magnet earrings," Alice said. "I just don't wear them
to school much because once about twelve years ago I got into a very
annoying conversation with someone who thought that if I liked earrings
enough to wear them every day, I ought to go get my ears pierced at her
aunt's parlor, and she wouldn't leave me be. It's not that hard to fix
up a regular earring to attach with magnets, if you know how. I'll show
you sometime."

* * * * *

After lunch, Edward did not run ahead of me to biology in order to leave
a gift at my table -- he must have done it before lunch. I unwrapped it;
it was a hair clip. It was very nice, but made mostly of wood, so I
supposed it might not technically count as jewelry (and at any rate he'd
put it there before I'd said to hold off on more.) I gathered my hair
together and pinned it back; Edward heard the clip snap closed with a
soft *tok*, and looked around to smile at me.

At gym, it was just a note: it said that, as I read it, he was
installing a stereo in my truck. I laughed softly and put the note into
my bag. His last class was Spanish, and the teacher knew perfectly well
that he was fluent (in fact, better than she was); he had de facto
permission to cut whenever he pleased.

The stereo, which was so perfectly installed that it looked like it had
come with the truck apart from being a hundred times newer than
everything around it, was well equipped to play my new CD. Edward
readily played whatever songs I liked whenever we were at his house, but
it was nice to have them in a portable form.

A disturbing thought occurred to me, as I drove home -- to do my
schoolwork without Edward's distracting presence before meeting him at
the Cullen house, as had become my habit.

With as little history experiencing and labeling romantic emotions as I
had, I might not even be able to tell when I stopped pretending.

* * * * *

I was not able to start my homework as soon as I'd expected. When I got
home, Billy Black -- and his son, a teenager now, whose name I couldn't
quite call to mind -- were there. I thought at first that it was simply a
visit to Charlie. If Billy couldn't drive, it would only make sense that
he'd enlist his son to cart him about occasionally -- was the boy old
enough to drive? I knew he was younger than me, but wasn't sure how
much. He looked about fourteen or fifteen, but might be sixteen. I
didn't play with boys as a ten-year-old girl, whatever their ages, when
there were girls like his sisters handy, so the fact that I didn't
recall him clearly was no clue. With Billy in the passenger seat,
perhaps still licensed to drive even if no longer physically capable of
it, the kid could probably play chauffeur with only a learner's permit.

Billy and Charlie were watching a game on TV, but whatever it was didn't
interest the younger Black, who was sitting in the kitchen and appeared
to be doing his own homework. He looked up and offered a friendly smile
when I walked in. "Hi, Bella!" he said.

Well, that made it awkward that I didn't know his name. "Hi," I replied
cheerfully, dumping my bookbag on the kitchen table and sitting down to
be sociable. "I'm afraid I don't..."

"I'm Jacob," he supplied, interrupting me; I gritted my teeth, told
myself that if he'd known me well enough to avoid that, I would have
*known* his name and he wouldn't have needed to do it.

"Hi, Jacob," I said. "Sorry about that. I know who you are, but I mostly
remember Rachel and Rebecca." And even them, I hadn't seen much after I
managed to make my distaste for fishing sufficiently clear. That was
Charlie's primary reason for bringing me to visit, was to instill his
love for yanking ichthyoids out of the water into his child on large
joint excursions.

"Yeah, it's okay," Jacob said amiably. I hoped suddenly that Edward
would not approach the house, looking to see where I'd gotten to. I
wasn't sure if I could politely excuse myself now that I'd gotten into a
conversation with Jacob. If I didn't turn up after a reasonable
homework-doing period of time had elapsed, Edward might wonder what had
happened. I didn't have a plan yet for safely dealing with Quileute
wolves, which Jacob could quite likely become if he hung out with
vampires at all. "Billy was hoping to talk to you," the
maybe-future-werewolf went on. "I think he's really invested in this
game, now, though, so would you mind hanging out until it's over? I
don't know if you were planning to go anywhere."

"Usually I come home, do my work," I gestured at Jacob's own textbooks,
"and then hang out at my boyfriend's house for a few hours before
dinner." I unzipped my knapsack and retrieved the brick that was my Trig
book. "I don't know how long the game's going to be, but I can hang back
a little. Might want to call my boyfriend, though, so he knows what's
up." I said the word "boyfriend" twice quite deliberately. I didn't want
to have to play matchmaker again. There was no reason to expect Jacob in
particular to need deflecting, but since he didn't go to my school and
hadn't seen the flagrant display of the last couple weeks, it seemed
prudent.

"Okay," Jacob said.

I took out all the other materials I'd need to do my homework, then got
up and dialed the phone. Jasper picked it up; I recognized his low,
controlled voice. The Southern accent he employed privately was
practiced away in case I was someone else. "Cullen residence," he said.

"Hi, Jasper," I said. "It's me. Can I talk to Edward?"

Edward's voice replaced Jasper's immediately. "Hello, Bella. What is
it?"

"Ch- Dad has some guests over," I said, remembering half a syllable into
Charlie's name that he preferred I not call him that, and that he was
within earshot. "Remember I told you about Billy? It's him and his son
Jacob. I'm going to stay and be sociable, and make sure they eat a nice
dinner. I might not be over today at all. So please don't be alarmed and
come wondering what the holdup is." *Please don't come and activate the
wolves*, I meant, and hoped he'd understand.

"Do you think you'll be able to come over at all today?" he asked. "It
*is* Valentine's day..."

"I know it's Valentine's day, I really wanted to come over," I said,
sounding too clingy even to myself -- I saw Jacob make a face out of the
corner of my eye. "You didn't have anything planned that depends on me
being there today in particular, did you? Chocolates taste just as good
on the fifteenth."

"It's all right," Edward said, soothing even over the phone -- there
might or might not be reservations or plans in place, but he clearly
didn't want me to fret over them. "Oh, and Bella -- Billy may well know
about us, and about Quileute wolves. If he hints about it enough that
you think he does, and you're talking to him alone, it won't put anyone
in additional danger for you to speak freely."

"Do you think that's likely?" I asked. I wondered suddenly what Billy
was even doing here -- usually Charlie went to the reservation. Jacob had
said he wanted to talk to me. Was he going to say something about the
vampires?

"Possibly," Edward said. "Will you call me after they've gone and let me
know what, if anything, happens?"

"Of course," I said.

"I'll see you tomorrow, at the latest, then," Edward said.

There was a pause, where it sounded like he was thinking the words *I
love you* very hard and not saying them because Alice had said to go
*slow* -- and I said, "Yes, tomorrow. Happy Valentine's Day!" and hung
up.

Had Alice been *specific* about the meaning of "slow"?

"His name is 'Edward'?" Jacob asked, sounding like he didn't much care
for the name.

"Yes," I said, flipping my math notebook open and finding the assigned
problem set in the text. "Do you or Billy have any food issues I should
know about?"

"I'm not sure if we're staying for dinner, actually," Jacob said. "If we
do, Billy's diabetic, don't feed him anything too loaded up on carbs but
otherwise he's not that careful about it. I'm not picky."

The game ended, and I heard the TV power off.

* * * * *

"Bella," said Billy, rolling into the kitchen. "It's good to see you
again. Could I trouble you to join me for a walk, or are you very busy?"
He looked at my homework.

"I've barely started," I said. "I'd be happy to go with you."

Charlie and Jacob got Billy's wheelchair over the single front step with
some effort, and then I stepped out after him. "If you could just push
me around the block," Billy asked politely; the roads were in poor
repair and couldn't be easy to navigate for him on his own.

I took hold of the handles sticking out of the back of the chair and
propelled him down the driveway at a steady pace. "So," I said, "what
did you want to talk to me about?"

"Charlie tells me you've been spending a lot of time with the Cullens,"
he said without further preamble.

I maneuvered him around a pothole. "That's correct," I said.

"You probably don't know this," Billy continued, "but the Cullen family
has an unpleasant reputation on the reservation."

"I'd heard something about that, in fact," I said. "It seems to me that
more than enough time has passed and it really should have died down by
now." If Billy didn't know the details, if he were just warning me away
from an outcast family, this would sound like I was siding with Charlie
and thought they'd proven themselves worthy. If he did, he'd know I was
talking about the seventy years since the vampires had last come to
Forks.

"You seem well-informed," Billy said slowly. I wasn't positioned to see
his face, but he sounded like he was speaking too deliberately -- trying
not to mess something important up.

"Oh, I'm sure Charlie talks all the time about how I will poke and poke
at an unanswered question that happens to strike my fancy, until I know
the answer," I said lightly. "I know all *kinds* of things."

"Mmm. Does Charlie know all kinds of things?" Billy asked, probing.

"I find he doesn't have at all the same attitude towards mysteries," I
said. "I also find that he finds me trustworthy in general and has
respect for my judgment. And I find that some people are very, *very*
attached to their secrets, and might not care for the people who stumble
across them."

Billy was silent for a minute; I pushed him around a car parked on the
street, undercorrected for the slope, and narrowly avoided steering him
into the gutter. "Sorry," I said.

"Don't worry about it," Billy said. Ironically, I was less clumsy
piloting the chair than I was walking about in its absence -- it gave me
something to hang onto. "You're probably right about Charlie," he said
after another pause. "What are *you* going to do about the...
secret-keepers?"

"If you can't beat 'em," I said cheerfully, "join 'em."

Billy went rigid where he sat. "Bella," he said warningly.

"I know the details. Believe me, I do. And I know about the treaty," I
went on, after checking for neighbors out strolling -- there were none.
"It's got some very specific language in it, which leaves a handy
loophole for me to hop through. I'll be just fine, Billy."

He was gripping his armrests and his knuckles were white. "*Bella
Swan*," he said again. "You have no idea -"

I bit my lip, fighting the urge to cut in and tell him that I had a very
*good* idea indeed, but words failed him and after a few seconds I said
it aloud. "I've been filled in to my own satisfaction on the important
parts. I'm not sure how much *you* know," I said. "Edward said you might
know about his family, and about, well, *yours* -- but didn't specify the
level of detail. Anything I can fill you in on, to put you at ease?"

Billy swiveled his head to look at me, incredulity on his face. He
turned back around without saying anything.

"I'd actually like to talk to you about... your own sort," I said. We
had somehow gotten into the pattern of using indirect words and it was
difficult to be the first to break it. "It sounds like there've been
some old skills lost. I think that's sad -- I'd like to help you get them
back, if you're willing."

"I'm too old," Billy murmured, and I couldn't make out the emotion
behind it -- did he want to be a wolf, as I thought sane, and feel sad
that he couldn't? Was he glad to be safe from my machinations? Perhaps
he'd *been* a wolf, seventy years ago, and kept it long enough to look
only a little past fifty now -- and now either regretted it or felt he'd
had good reasons to quit.

"Not everyone is. Jacob," I suggested.

"You don't know what you're playing with, Bella," Billy said warningly.

"I've told you several times that I know quite a bit. But I'm not
planning to do anything very soon that directly concerns you," I said.
"Or anything that involves uninformed parties ever. I'm not going to
show up in the night and restore all the old Quileute traditions
unexpectedly. Everyone needs to make their own choices. I've picked out
one for myself, and I hope you understand that."

We'd gone full circle around the block. I pushed Billy up the driveway
and then opened the door so less accident-prone persons could haul him
over the step.

The Blacks stayed for dinner; Billy kept giving me strange looks, but
didn't say anything else hinting while Charlie and Jacob watched. I
baked fish, and then made small talk with Jacob over our respective
homeworks for about an hour, before I finished my work, decided I'd put
in enough of an appearance, and escaped to visit my boyfriend.

Coven
=====

The next month was nearly uneventful.

On the first Thursday in March, Edward and I cut Biology together: he
warned me that the lesson plan involved blood typing. Although he
remarked that hanging around me as much as he did, he had probably
developed the ability to tolerate *other* blood just fine even if it
were exposed to the air, there was no sense in taking the risk with as
much of a pass to skip as he had. And I would likely have passed out --
which I explained to the teacher the next day, in apologetic tones that
avoided me detention.

The subsequent Saturday, my human friends and I took our planned trip to
the beach. I wanted to invite Edward along -- with Mike and Jessica
finally having declared themselves mutual significant others, and Eric
and Lauren vaguely wending that way, it looked a little couple-y apart
from Angela. But Edward wasn't allowed on Quileute land, and First Beach
was in the relevant area.

Some Quileute kids turned up while we were there; Jacob, among them,
made a beeline for me. I complained conspicuously about Edward's absence
after greeting him. This prompted Jacob to tell me "scary stories" about
the Cullens, once he realized that it was that particular Edward whom I
was dating. They added no factual data to my supply, except for the
tidbit that it remained against tribal law to kill wolves. I did get him
to flesh out the cast of characters a little: Jacob *was* descended from
tribal elders, and pointed out others on the beach who also had
interesting ancestry. I was pretty sure they could all become wolves
under the right conditions, assuming the genes had stuck around. What I
didn't know was whether this was a good sampling of young-enough
Quileutes -- it was possible that potential wolves hung around together
more often and that was why this group had arrived together.

On the thirteenth, a Sunday, I visited the vampires' baseball field
again, this time to watch it used for its customary purpose. The Cullens
all liked baseball, but because a vampire hitting a ball with all of his
or her strength was very *loud*, they elected to play only when there
was thunder nearby to cover their activity. Constraining game dates also
by the desire not to be rained on where they played, this left them with
precious few appropriate days, but Alice was well able to predict them
in advance. Edward picked me up at my house to convey me there (by car
most of the way, and carrying me himself from the house to the field).

As the resident psychic had predicted, the field was completely dry
while Forks proper was deluged in torrential rain and illuminated by
lightning. I sat on the grass, beside Esme, who refereed while the
others played, leaving even teams of three. Vampire baseball was about
what I'd expected: too fast for my eyes to follow. I mostly enjoyed the
expressions on the players' faces when they were still between moments
of action -- variations on frustration and triumph. Sometimes they
heckled each other, coming up with reasonably creative insults (although
I had no way of knowing if they were original to this occasion). Esme
and I chatted idly when she didn't need to call out declarations of
safety and outness.

Fifteen minutes into the game, Alice froze in place between first base
and second. Emmett tagged her out, actually knocking her over with his
momentum. She hopped to her feet again, looking frustrated and shooing
Emmett and his protests away. Edward, in the outfield, flashed in
closer, to stand by his sister. "Alice," he murmured. I saw their lips
moving, and I knew the other vampires could hear what passed between
them, but I couldn't. She was seeing something and he was watching it
and it alarmed them both...

Edward appeared next to me. The others approached more slowly, forming a
loose semicircle. "Bella," Edward said, "there are three other vampires,
not our friends, in the area. Alice saw them before but they firmly
intended to head north without getting very near, until they heard the
game and could tell it wasn't thunder. They're curious. I can't travel
as quickly carrying you as I can alone. Even if I could, your scent
would still be on the field, obviously new, and the last thing we want
is for them to start hunting you." He said all this barely slowly enough
for me to keep up with the words, and as soon as he'd finished informing
me he turned towards his family and they began talking very rapidly. I
caught a handful of the words.

"...thirsty?" said someone's voice, possibly Esme's. Edward shook his
head -- I *thought* at that question -- and that seemed a small relief.

"Only three..." scoffed Emmett.

"How soon?" I thought this was Carlisle. The answer contained the number
"five", but I didn't catch the unit -- minutes were most likely, I
judged...

"Everyone," said Carlisle over the hum of agitated chatter, and the
others quieted. "Let's just continue the game. Edward said they are
simply curious."

"Esme, you catch," Edward said in a hard voice. "I'll call." She didn't
protest, and flitted over to her place. Edward positioned himself in
front of me, looking furiously into the distance, at the direction I
guessed the other vampires would approach from.

"Is there anything I can do to smell less obvious?" I asked.

"Take your hair down," Edward said, growling under his breath -- clearly
anticipating a fight. I pulled it out of my ponytail and shook it down
over my face. I huddled as small as I could under my coat. *Look
undelicious*, I told myself, but I didn't know how to do that. If it
came to a fight, the Cullens would win, I thought -- by the numbers -- but
there could be casualties. Someone could die. *Edward* could die. I
looked up at him, peeping through the gaps in the curtain of my hair,
and knew he'd do it without hesitating if it would save me.

I clamped my lips down on the words I wanted to say, provoked by the
danger -- it was not a good time to have that conversation; it would be
dramatic, but not clever, and I didn't want to be dramatic if it would
put anyone in more danger...

The game proceeded tensely. The batters all bunted, not wanting to send
anyone running after a ball that careened out of the field as most of
the solid hits did. The outfielders stalked the edges of the clearing,
paying less attention to the game.

And then the other vampires arrived. There were three: a nondescript
male with sandy hair entered the clearing first, then fell back to let a
darker-haired, more muscular man with an odd olive hue to his chalky
skin take the lead. Last to arrive was a woman with brilliant orange
hair, which was long, curly, and full of forest debris. All of them had
feral, catlike gaits, obviously predatory, and wore backpacking outfits
but no shoes.

Their eyes were a dark wine red.

Carlisle approached them with his arms spread non-threateningly; Emmett
followed slightly to his left and Jasper on his right. It was a small
comfort to notice that the leader of the unfamiliar coven was just
Jasper's match in size, and dwarfed by Emmett's great bulk. I wasn't
sure how much that mattered, but it looked like it did. The visitors (I
kept forcing myself to choose alternatives to the word "enemies" in my
mind -- they hadn't yet proven themselves that, not so directly) dropped
into more casual poses, and the olive-pallored leader smiled, showing
off bright and even teeth. Between stabs of fear, I had a vague
intellectual interest in watching the covens meet; it was the sort of
thing about vampire behavior I'd need to know later -- if I didn't die
then and there.

"We thought we heard something interesting," the dark-haired one said.
"I'm Laurent; these are Victoria and James." He indicated the
flame-haired woman and the ordinary-looking man beside her. Victoria and
James exchanged a look; I had the sudden intuition that they were mates,
with Laurent either without one of his own or separated therefrom.

"I'm Carlisle. This is my family, Emmett and Jasper, Alice, Rosalie and
Esme, Edward and Bella," Carlisle said. He waved towards us in vague
groups, avoiding drawing attention to individuals. I was momentarily
surprised that he included me in the family -- but of course he didn't
want to pick me out as a mere future in-law for Laurent's benefit.

Laurent took in the baseball equipment. "Do you have room for a few more
players?" he asked, sounding friendly and inquisitive. I wondered if I
looked suspiciously unvampiric, crouched under my jacket when no vampire
would have been bothered by the cold. None of them had yet tried to eat
me. I tried to hold still the way I could if I were inedible.

"Actually, we were just finishing up," Carlisle said, matching Laurent's
tone, sounding vaguely regretful as though he'd have liked nothing more
than to have a catch with the anthropophagic creatures standing before
him. "But perhaps another time. Are you planning to stay in the area for
long?"

"We're headed north," said Laurent, "but were curious to see who was in
the neighborhood. We haven't run into any company in a long time."
Except for their dinner. Dinner probably made terrible company, though,
gibbering and begging for its life, and that was if you paused to let it
talk...

"This region is usually empty except for us and the occasional visitor,
like yourselves," said Carlisle. Laurent's coven looked relaxed and
casual; I wondered if Jasper was leaning on them, and decided to thank
him fervently if he were.

"What's your hunting range?" Laurent inquired, tone casual. The question
didn't assume *outright* that the Cullens hunted humans -- they had to
have seen the gold eyes, but did they know what that meant?

Carlisle described the environs of Forks, covering the La Push area in
his claim even though the Cullens didn't venture there, and then said,
"We maintain a permanent residence nearby. There's another permanent
settlement like ours near Denali."

"Permanent?" asked Laurent, looking interested. "How do you manage
that?" Had they still not noticed I was human? My scent was supposedly
strong on the field -- the wind had been wrong, but if they would
supposedly have smelled me even if I were *gone*.

"It's rather a long story," Carlisle said, and then he invited them to
their home -- I had no idea what he was thinking. There was no way for me
to get out of that field without revealing human clumsiness or being
implausibly carried. Was he planning to take them there in a splintered
group while Edward circled around via some other direction with me? Did
he think he had Laurent intrigued enough to avoid hunting me as long as
there was information to be had? Laurent *did* look curious -- James and
Victoria less so.

Laurent said the invitation was welcome. Carlisle then put in a request
that they not hunt in the Cullens' range, on the grounds that they
needed to stay inconspicuous. Laurent agreed readily; his coven had just
eaten. (I restrained a shudder.) And then as Carlisle began to say
something else, a breeze wafted by me in exactly the wrong direction...

Edward went entirely stiff and James was suddenly, as though under a
strobe light, posed facing me in a hungry crouch, teeth bared, nostrils
flaring wide.

Edward snarled like some sort of animal, not the harmless little
grumbles I'd heard the vampires make -- it was a threat, full of menace,
a declaration that Edward was prepared to kill if James took one step
too close. I had so many reasons to be afraid: *My boyfriend can sound
like that. Those vampires might kill me. They might kill Edward. He
might kill them. If they have friends and he kills them, they might find
us...*

"What's this?" asked Laurent, clearly astounded. He didn't seem to have
caught my scent as strongly as James -- and Victoria barely reacted at
all except to fix her attention on her mate -- but he clearly knew the
situation now.

"She's with us," Carlisle told them, aiming the statement more at James
than Laurent.

"You brought a snack?" Laurent asked incredulously. His foot moved
forward. Edward's lips curled back, showing all his teeth, and he let
out another, more ferocious snarl.

"I *said*," corrected Carlisle sharply, "she's with us."

Laurent was dumbfounded. "But she's *human*." He didn't sound hostile --
but nor did he make a move to check James, who still looked ready to
pounce. Emmett shifted position a little, and James slowly straightened
up, but went on staring at me -- Edward didn't budge.

"It appears we have a lot to learn about each other," Laurent said,
trying to defuse the hostility. If Jasper was using his talents, they
were not as effective as I'd imagined.

"Indeed," said Carlisle tightly.

Laurent went on. "But we'd like to accept your invitation. And, of
course, we will not harm the human girl. We won't hunt in your range, as
we said."

James looked at Laurent unbelievingly and then glanced to Victoria,
whose eyes were flicking from face to face without settling in any one
place for more than a moment. She looked edgy, but not very interested
in eating me -- if I was reading her right.

Carlisle looked steadily at Laurent, and then said, "We'll show you the
way." And then he called Jasper, Rosalie, and Esme to join him and the
foreign coven. They formed a line that blocked me from view. Alice
appeared at my side as soon as it was clear he didn't want her with the
larger group; Emmett fell back more reluctantly and kept his eyes on
James as he backed towards us.

I was still sitting on the grass, rigid with fear. Edward picked me up
without ceremony and clutched me so tightly that it was almost
uncomfortable, but it was better than huddling in my coat. The four of
us were off through the forest. Under the trees, it was pitch black; not
even the tendrils of cloud-filtered sunset that had lit up the field
were visible through the leaves. Edward normally seemed exhilarated when
he ran, but not this time -- he was running off pure rage. I wondered how
difficult it had been for him to avoid attacking James the instant my
species had been revealed.

We reached Emmett's gigantic Jeep, and Edward tossed me into the
backseat. Emmett slid in beside me, Alice took the passenger seat, and
Edward was starting the engine.

"Where are we going?" I asked in a low voice, when I'd found where my
vocal cords had gotten to.

"Away," said Edward tightly. He sounded like he didn't want to answer
me, he was just mechanically answering me because I had to be answered.
The spedometer was overtaxed by the crazy velocity he was undertaking. I
couldn't tell where the car was hurtling in the dark. "We have to get
you far away from here. Now."

* * * * *

"Why?" I asked. "That doesn't make sense; Laurent said they wouldn't
hunt in your range, it's safer for me to stay here."

"James won't abide by that agreement," said Edward tightly, forcing each
word through his throat with immense effort. "He's a tracker."

Emmett reacted to this word considerably more than I did, going stiff in
his seat. Alice seemed to recognize it too. I said, "A what?"

"He's got a power," Edward said. "Hunting is his passion, his obsession.
And he wants you in particular. You're the most irresistible sort of
prey -- a single vulnerable element in a large coven of protectors. He's
committed to the hunt now and he can't be stopped unless we kill him."

"Then why run? If he'll follow me wherever I go until he's dead or I
am," I said, "then it will come to a fight, won't it? There's got to be
some advantage to having it out on your turf. Or do you mean he'll stop
when I'm turned and you need to put me in a bunker in Alaska where I can
be hidden for the three days it'll take me to vamp up ahead of
schedule?"

"He's no match for us, Edward," Emmett said. He sounded like he relished
the possibility of a fight.

"The female, she's with him," Edward said. "And if it turns into a
fight, their leader will go with them, too."

"There are enough of us," scoffed Emmett.

"I'm sure you could beat them," I said, "but I'm not sure you could do
it without casualties. Edward, *will* he lose interest if I'm turned? Is
that the plan, or were you just thinking I could live the rest of my
life on a series of airplanes until there's a chance to put me on a
space colony or something?" Edward didn't answer. Perhaps he didn't know
-- his brand of mindreading picked up only surface thoughts, and could
leave gaps like that.

Alice said, "I don't see him attacking. He'll try to wait for us to
leave her alone."

Edward growled. "It won't take him long to realize that's not going to
happen."

"If he finds it interesting to hunt protected, vulnerable people, what
would be the point of waiting until you left and then finding me at home
or someth-" I choked on the rest of that word. "Charlie. If he crosses
my scent anywhere in town he'll find Charlie."

"She's right," said Alice.

"And wouldn't it be *interesting*," I said, "wouldn't that make it so
much more fun for James, if he had my father hostage and had me
desperately working against you to get away from my protections in
exchange for Charlie's life?"

Edward snarled again; I started to fear for the structural integrity of
the steering column.

"So we'll pick him up," Emmett said. "If James is still waiting for us
to leave her alone, that's safe, isn't it?"

"Turning Charlie isn't part of the plan!" I cried. "If we grab him, even
if you manage to fake being human perfectly, the choices are still run
forever or eventually fight James. And you don't think he'll come
quietly, do you?" Charlie was far more closely tied to Forks than I was.
He had a job he loved, longstanding friendships he cared about, he was
on the Quileute reservation *all* the time...

Edward clenched his jaw. "The coven has visited the house. Laurent is
still there, talking to Carlisle; James and Victoria looked around a
little, and excused themselves," he reported. He was driving quickly but
I supposed his family's minds might still be just in range. "They
claimed to plan to continue their original route, and headed in the
correct direction as far as Carlisle could see, but could easily have
doubled back. Laurent is expressing an interest in visiting the
Denalis."

"Look," I said. "We're going about this in a completely confused way."

"What's your idea?" asked Alice.

"I don't have one yet. Hang on." I took a deep breath.

*What do I want?*

I wanted to live. I wanted Charlie and all of the Cullens to live. In --
I had to admit to myself to have the *best* chance of getting what I
wanted -- roughly that order. It felt awful to realize that I wouldn't
die for Charlie, and I hoped never to be in a position where that was
actually the tradeoff, but I knew *Charlie* would insist that I be the
one to live if it did come to that, which was something of a salve for
the guilt.

I felt less terrible about preferring myself to the Cullens. Edward,
probably even more so than Charlie, would fling himself into any danger
if it would give me a better chance. I half-suspected that he was
sufficiently emotionally vulnerable that he literally could not live
without me -- that if I turned up dead he'd calmly douse himself in
napalm, hoping, in his confused theological muddle, to somehow join me.
The others were friends -- Alice in particular was a good friend -- but I
simply hadn't known them that long. Also, they would not want Edward to
feel compelled to napalm himself either.

*If* everyone's life were assured, I wanted everyone involved to have
mutual knowledge of that survival. I wanted to stick to my original plan
-- finishing out the school year, dramatically eloping to Europe, and
bringing my parents and friends into the fold one by one in any case
where Alice said we could do it safely.

*What do I have?* And the sub-question, *What do I know?*

Edward's absolute top priority was my life -- but he was susceptible to
bad reasoning about what that meant and would not necessarily be easy to
bring into an agreement about how best to secure it. Emmett was itching
to fight. The other Cullens, as a group, were prepared to treat me as a
member of the family and would probably defend me as well. There were
seven of them; even split up in two groups, each half was at least an
even match for Laurent's group.

James was a tracker whose purpose in life was to pick interesting
targets and commit himself absolutely to getting them. At least under
the condition where I remained human, he'd follow me until at least one
of us was dead. He probably didn't know about Edward's and Alice's
powers, although he might have an inkling of Jasper's. He *had* seen
Edward's display in the field, and could likely figure out that there
was an eternal vampy soulmate thing going on there, and knew that Edward
(and by extension the entire family) thought he was a threat to me.
Victoria had his back, the typically devoted vampire mate. Although
apparently hunting was not her own hobby, or Edward would probably have
been able to pick up similar intentions from her. Laurent was not
personally hostile, but would take his coven's side in a confrontation.

As far as the Cullens were concerned, money was no object. I did not
think it was *possible* for me to come up with a plan that didn't
involve the outright purchase of a small country, which could tax their
finances irrecoverably. As long as I got a Cullen, at least one of them,
on board with whatever plan I invented, I could freely call for
financial expenditure.

*What is the best way to use what I have to get what I want?*

Wild plans spun to life in my mind and I tried to sort them, dividing
plausible from untenable.

At least one of two things *had* to happen in the reasonably short term,
unless Edward was wrong about James's implacability: James had to die or
I had to turn. Turning might not be a guarantee of deterring the hunter,
but it would make me less vulnerable if he got through my protectors. (I
did not expect to emerge into vampirehood equipped with expert fighting
skills, but at least I wouldn't so closely resemble a melting
marshmallow in texture and menace.) The process would take three days,
but it might be possible for the vampires to move me while I was
incapacitated.

"James hunts alone?" I asked Edward.

"Yes," he grunted. He was still driving absurdly fast. I had no idea
where he was going.

"Alice, can you see if Laurent and Victoria are really going to Denali?"

Alice closed her eyes; I saw her in the rearview mirror, concentrating.
"Laurent is," she said finally.

"Laurent's really only with them for convenience," said Edward. "I said
he'd stand with them in a fight, but that's if they were all attacked
together..."

"Someone should call the Denali group and ask them to keep Laurent
occupied for a while if they can," I said. Emmett had a cellphone on
him; he flipped it open and dialed a number, murmuring a summary of the
situation and request to the friend on the other end once he was
answered. "Where is Victoria going?" I asked Alice.

"It looks like she's going to sort of... loiter, north of where Carlisle
said our hunting range was," Alice reported. "And wait there for James
to contact her or come back."

"She'll wait alone?" I confirmed. Alice nodded. "How long will James
wait for me to be left by myself before he'll change plans?"

"Maybe... two days? Three? He hasn't decided yet," she said.

"What would happen," I said, "if, in that time, you *kidnapped*
Victoria?"

* * * * *

The car was filled with another hubbub of vampires talking too fast for
me to follow, and I frowned, annoyed. Was it a good idea or not? If
there was anything James cared about more than getting me dead, of
course it would be Victoria -- if we had a little leeway of time, five of
the Cullens could go get her while two at home still left James
outnumbered if he made an unexpected early move on me. And then there'd
be leverage over James, or bait, depending -- if I'd missed something
important I wished they'd tell me. I listened harder. The words I did
catch were names -- Cullens and the other coven's members -- and that told
me almost nothing.

"Hey," I said. "I don't really appreciate being left out of a
conversation like this."

"Sorry, Bella," said Alice. "We like your idea. We were discussing
strategy -- who should stay to watch you and who should go get her, and
how to hold her once we have her, and then what happens next."

"Is there a way to hold a vampire short of, you know, actually holding
her?" I asked, miming grabbing a wrist and hanging on.

"Not really -- not without powers we don't have," said Emmett. "But two
could do it, especially if Jasper's one."

"With Laurent out of the way, that leaves five more of us to split up
between making sure he doesn't free Victoria and making sure he doesn't
get you," Edward muttered. "If Jasper and, let's say Esme, hold
Victoria, and Alice and I watch you, and Emmett, Rosalie, and Carlisle
confront James in a group... One of them would have to stay on the phone
with Alice so she could direct them. Or maybe Alice should go and
Rosalie or Carlisle should stay with you..." He fretted, but he wasn't
as obviously full to bursting with terror on my behalf and fury at James
as he had been before. This was planning, not despairing flight.

"Where are we going?" I asked pointedly.

"Oh." Edward frowned and started to slow down. "I was driving to the
airport. I suppose we should take you home. You can tell Charlie you
want Alice to sleep over; I'll go in through the window," he suggested.
The Jeep slowed enough to allow him to execute a safe U-turn.

"That works," I agreed. "How are we going to keep Charlie from getting
taken hostage when I have to go to school? Should I fake sick?" Alice
saw that as long as I got good long vampire hugs for a few minutes
before telling Charlie I didn't feel well, I'd be easily cold and clammy
enough to get him to let me stay in. She'd be able to stick by me openly
by getting Carlisle's "permission" over the phone and protesting that I
shouldn't be left home alone while Charlie was at work. Edward, of
course, would be hiding.

"Should we even keep Victoria alive?" Emmett asked. "That's two fighters
she'll tie up just by being kidnapped. I think we should kill her. Grab
some hair first to prove we got to her, and maybe hang on to her long
enough to ask personal questions and have Ed pull the answers so we
can 'prove' to James that we've got her someplace. But then -- I mean, we're
going to have to kill James, you know. She's not gonna put up with that.
Sooner's easier than later."

Edward and Alice seemed to consider this a fair question. I felt a
little queasy plotting Victoria's death. I knew she was a murderer, and
probably had no realistic chance of ceasing to be one, and that she
probably *wouldn't* nonviolently tolerate her mate's death, which was
likely necessary for self-defense... but Victoria hadn't *personally*
done anything to me *yet*, or even formed the intention to do so, and
that seemed to put it on different footing. I didn't bring it up. *I
want to live*, I told myself. And it was true: my discomfort over
orchestrating Victoria's execution didn't compare to the sick fear I'd
felt when James had looked at me like a delicious beverage.

Whoever she'd have eaten next probably wanted to live, too.

* * * * *

Edward drove less manically towards my house. Emmett called his wife
while we were on the way, uttered some overdone mush to Rosalie so she'd
have a good excuse to get out of Laurent's earshot, and then summarized
the plan to her. We got to my place at about ten, and I bounced in,
arm-in-arm with Alice, pleading with Charlie for a sleepover and leaning
very hard on my limited acting skills. Alice was much better at it than
me, and jabbered about painting our nails, and how she couldn't *wait*
to braid my hair because hers wasn't long enough and Rosalie and Esme
wouldn't let her do theirs, and she just *had* to dish dirt on her
boyfriend to someone who didn't live in their same house and -- Charlie
finally waved us upstairs, overwhelmed by girly excitement. Alice
followed me up the stairs with a gleeful squeal that I thought was
probably uncalled for.

When we got to my room, Edward was waiting there -- pacing. "Will you
face one wall long enough for me to change, please?" I asked him
pointedly. He sighed slightly and obediently looked at the door to my
closet. I hopped into my pajamas gratefully -- I kind of wanted a shower,
too, but I wasn't sure Edward would tolerate me spending that long out
of his line of sight until he'd calmed down a bit more. It could wait.
If the vampires had a problem with how I smelled, it wasn't with the
fact that I was gross. My outfit of the day had dirt on it from where
I'd sat in the field, and it was covered with the sweat that apparently
came with the immediate fear for one's life. I dumped it into the
hamper.

As soon as Alice saw that Laurent had left the Cullen home, she called
Esme and asked for an overnight bag (which was to contain a number of
non-overnight-bag-ish contingency items, like several thousand dollars
cash, in case we had to bolt). Esme was obliged to make two minutes of
small talk with Charlie about how her silly daughter had spontaneously
organized the sleepover without thinking to pack anything, ha ha, and
she'd just take this upstairs and be on her way. She dropped it off with
us, gave Alice and Edward each a kiss on the forehead, patted my hair,
and then went out again. To go help kill Victoria.

I hoped Victoria wouldn't kill any of them.

Five vampires, including Jasper, should be enough to take down one who
had no power or one so inconspicuous that neither Alice nor Edward had
caught it. Should. And if they didn't die, but were merely torn to
parts, they could be put together again -- she wouldn't have the chance
to grind them up into powder or the materials to set them on fire --

It hurt to think about it. I got into bed and buried my head in pillow.
Alice stood by the window and Edward by the door, unsleeping, watchful,
as I effortfully nodded off.

* * * * *

Edward and Alice were my near-constant companions for the next three
days, which I spent entirely in my own room or five feet down the hall
in the bathroom. (Edward glared at Alice when she suggested that perhaps
I did not need to be accompanied to the bathroom when her sight was
clear of James, and thereafter she went with me; I got accustomed to it
after a while.) They hid when Charlie was nearby; luckily, he didn't go
through my stuff.

On Monday, very early in the morning, Edward briefly traded his guard
duties with Carlisle in order to enact Emmett's idea of retrieving
personal information from Victoria without her enthusiastic cooperation.
He was back a couple of hours later, grim but looking marginally more
comfortable with the state of the world and its population of hostile
vampires. Victoria had had a phone, but not a number with which to call
James: he was supposed to call her first. So there was no immediate use
for her as bait to lure James into a trap. She'd only be useful as a way
to throw him off balance when the time to fight came.

Esme and Rosalie trailed my father as he went about his work, in case
James tried for him. Carlisle went to work as usual and let out that all
his children had some illness that he'd troubled to make medically
plausible.

James was indecisive. The tenth time Alice growled to herself about
headaches, I started to suspect that he somehow knew about her power. If
he were such a great hunter, why would he make such fragile plans, and
discard them so readily? It was thwarting *us*, and rather neatly, but
it could only slow him down with most targets. Maybe he didn't care
about being leisurely as long as he got to destroy his prey in the most
elegant way possible.

But Alice did keep seeing fairly stable flashes of his immediate plans,
too near at hand to conceal with indecision. And from these she was able
to conclude, on Tuesday morning, that he was in Arizona.

Extracting this information from Alice was like pulling teeth. I knew
she'd seen something, because she and Edward made faces at each other
the way they did when he was reading her mind and he was talking too
softly for me to hear *anything*, even an excessively rapid babble.

"Why," I asked, when I'd finally prodded her to give up this
information, "didn't you want to tell me that James is in Arizona? It
would be better if he were in Siberia, but relative to, say, Seattle,
Arizona's pretty good."

"Because your mother lives in Arizona," Edward said reluctantly.

"Yes," I said, "but she isn't there *now*. She's in Florida, with Phil."
One thing that was very easy to do without leaving my room (along with
the homework that Angela brought me every day, forcing me to look
convincingly sick) was keep in touch with Renée by e-mail, but the
vampires didn't spy on my correspondence, apparently.

"*Oh,*" said Alice, and she looked like she felt very silly.

"Then why would James be there?" asked Edward, flinging his hands up.

"I don't know," I admitted, and I didn't. Of course it could have
something to do with Renée, but he might have other tasks in his life
that he wanted to accomplish. That involved going to Arizona, when he'd
been headed north from Washington before... and which he wanted to do
while his mate waited for him (so he thought)... and that didn't make
sense after all. Maybe he *thought* Renée was there, and would leave
when he found she wasn't. I tried to think whether there would be any
way he'd be able trace her to Florida. Perhaps his tracking powers
wouldn't be deterred by airplanes, but neither of my guardians knew.
There was no one she'd leave a note for. Evidence of Phil's occupation
was scattered around the house, though, and could let a clever person
determine his whereabouts -- and hers by extension. It was a lead. More
of a lead than I wanted James to have.

"Is he going to be in Florida?" I asked Alice, apology in my voice for
the probable headache. "Or stay in Arizona for very long?"

She scrunched up her face, looking unhappy. "I... I see him in Florida.
Yes. I can't tell where exactly, but... there's a sign. He's going to be
in Florida."

I sucked in air through my teeth. "We need to get a detail on my
mother."

"We're already too split up," fretted Edward.

"My *mother*, Edward," I snapped. "If someone might be trying to get
Esme in order to hurt you, and she weren't a vampire herself, you'd want
her protected."

This was inarguable. Eventually it was decided that Alice belonged as
close to James as possible, to give that group the best chance at
killing him and rendering all the guarding unnecessary. The same
argument applied to Edward, really, but he refused to leave my side, so
instead Jasper went with her. Emmett went too, as the physically
strongest fighter. They left on Wednesday morning, which Alice promised
would still put them in Florida before James's arrival.

When Carlisle wasn't at work, he hung around near my house. When Charlie
wasn't at work, so did Esme and Rosalie. But during the day, it was me
and Edward.

I could not help but notice that, by the time Wednesday afternoon rolled
around, Edward's eyes were awfully close to black.

"You need to hunt, soon," I said. "Tonight, when the others show up."

Edward gritted his teeth. He had never liked being away from me and the
fact that James wanted me dead wasn't improving his ability to function
without me right there, visibly intact. But I couldn't come hunting with
him, and if he got hungrier, he'd be nearly as much of a danger. So
Edward slipped away in the night, taking the time to tuck me in first.

Besides, James was far away, in or on his way to Florida, being chased
down by three vampires jointly four times his size.

And so of course it came as a complete surprise when he captured me
anyway.

* * * * *

I was asleep when he nabbed me. I assumed, when I awoke and noticed I
was tied up in the backseat of a moving vehicle driven by James, that
there had been chloroform or something of that nature involved -- or I
would have woken up in the process. What I couldn't figure out was how
James had gotten past Carlisle, Esme, and Rosalie. I also wasn't at all
sure why he'd taken me alive.

As it happened, he hadn't gagged me, so I spent ten minutes forcing the
mind-numbing terror into the background to let myself ask questions. *If
he wanted me dead I'd be dead,* I told myself. *I'm not dead. He's going
somewhere. He won't kill me until he gets there. Dread is not useful in
any way, shape, or form.* I repeated the sentences to myself, letting
them march across my mind in a loop, and tried to find a comfortable way
to lie on the seat, which proved impossible. So did completely ridding
myself of the fear. It was far too appropriate to the situation to be
dismissed so easily. I could just barely shove it aside enough to let me
think around it. And utter sentences, or parts of them, although they
shook like gelatin.

"How...?"

James smiled. I was arranged at such an angle that I could see the
rightmost corner of his mouth turn up. "Hi there, Bella," he said. "I
*bet* you're curious. I'll tell you all kinds of interesting tidbits
while I kill you. I'm planning to send your boyfriend the videotape, and
it'll be more interesting that way. But I have no interest in repeating
myself."

My brain flew into action.

*I want to live. I have the power of speech. How can I get what I want?*

And then I spoke the words.

* * * * *

"You don't know?" I asked, feigning surprise. I didn't have to conceal
the terror in my voice -- the lies I'd spun in a panic to protect myself
didn't call for me to pretend to be invulnerable or to have a deathwish,
so I could still act as fearful as I was insofar as that didn't
interfere with speech. But I did need to overlay other things on top of
that. "About the reward? But there's no other reason to kidnap me," I
prodded, when James didn't say anything.

"What are you talking about?"

"Wait a minute -- why did you *think* they were keeping me around?" I
asked. "Didn't that seem kind of weird?"

"Not your boyfriend, then?"

I made a little snorting noise. "You thought that because he snarled at
you? No, that would have been much pleasanter all around, I'm sure," I
said. The wobbling of my voice between real fear and fake contempt made
for an interesting effect. "He just wanted to turn me in undamaged to
the Volturi, to get the reward."

"Mm-hm." James wasn't buying it -- quite -- but I wasn't done.

"They didn't tell me much directly -- no reason to," I said. "But they
talk around me. Not much choice since they never let me alone -- I don't
know how you got past them. They said I'm a *witch*, that the Volturi
like turning witches. They got on the phone with someone with a funny
Latin name -- Caius, I think -- and made a deal that they'd hand me over
to those Volturi people."

"What were the Volturi offering?" James asked, starting to get curious.

"Let me think if I can remember the exact words... It was *something*
about immunity from the rule about keeping themselves secret," I mused.
"I guess they really like having a permanent settlement and wish it
were... more permanent? That it would be okay for people to notice they
don't age? They were talking all the time about how they'd have to make
sure the word didn't get out too far, that it could just be the one
town. But they still *really* wanted it. Enough to give me to the
Volturi people. They had to wait a few days before taking me to Italy
because the other two they didn't talk to on the phone, Aro and another
Latin name guy... Marcus or something?"

James gave a slight nod, more invested in the conversation now. "Aro and
Marcus," I continued. "They were out of their city dealing with somebody
who broke some rule. The Volturi must be really powerful, huh?" I
marveled. "I mean, those people who had me trapped, I would have tried
to run away but there would've been no way I could do it. And there were
seven of them. I don't know how you got me out, I mean wow. I can't
imagine what would scare them, but they sure wanted the Volturi's
permission before they did anything." I paused, for effect. "Wow. I bet
the Volturi will be *pissed* if they can't have the witch they wanted
after all. Maybe they'll kill all of them. Serves them right," I spat.
The unspoken implication was that James, too, would be at the risk of
Volturi wrath if he were responsible for the loss of the desired witch.

It was a bluff. An outrageous bluff concocted in too little time and too
much adrenaline. But he *knew* I had every motivation to lie like a rug,
and *already* planned to kill me and *already* had the means to do it.
Anything I could tell him that didn't make him kill me sooner or slower
was a potential improvement.

I would have backed off in a heartbeat if he'd shown any inclination to
be annoyed with the fact that I was talking, or with the likelihood that
I was telling tales. I wanted to set myself up as the useful object that
could be destroyed *or* redeemed for valuable cash prizes, and I wanted
him not to accumulate enough hate to pick the first option out of spite.
It would be worse than useless for me to annoy him, or at least to
appear to be the *source* of his annoyance or emotionally precious to
that source.

But James wasn't annoyed. He'd gotten his target. He could have gagged
me and hadn't. He could have told me to shut up when I started talking,
and didn't.

The Volturi were the only group I could think of that could *definitely*
kill James and might *not* kill me besides the Cullen and Denali covens.
And James knew about *them*. I had not memorized any meeting places or
things of that nature into which I could hope to lure him to good
effect. And so I was hoping that the Volturi really *did* like witches.
And that my witchy power was extensive enough that I could prove my
claim to their mindreader.

"The Volturi have never done anything like that before," James remarked.

"It seems weird," I said. "I gather they've been running the vampires
for, like, thousands of years." I was trying to sound a little stupid,
too stupid to be deliberately tricking James. I wished I hadn't used the
word "gather". I went on, more carefully, "Maybe they think the secret's
all gonna go to hell anyway, since technology's getting so, you know,
high-tech, and it's harder to hide. And they want to get more witches
first so when it goes to hell they get to stay in charge."

James was smart enough to put this poorly worded supposition together.
"Then it's not much of a reward, is it?"

"I guess. Those people who had me before really wanted it. But I mean,
if you're immortal, I guess a hundred years or whatever isn't that long?
I dunno. It could take that long for the immunity to be useless. It
sounds like a long time to *me*."

"Was that the only reward the Volturi had on offer," he asked, "or did
those people ask for it specifically?"

"I'm not sure. I know they were talking about how they already had
plenty of money, and didn't need more," I said. "I don't know what all
else the Volturi were offering... I don't know what they have."

"Mm."

"Hey," I said, "are you a witch too?"

He smirked. "Just a bit."

"Have you ever met the Volturi? What are they like?"

"They don't normally like to be disturbed," he muttered. "More trouble
than it's worth to just go visit them..."

"Oh," I said, and fell silent. Needed to give his mind time to work.

There were a few things he could be thinking, and many of them worked in
my favor. He could fear the Volturi, and want leeway within their rules
as a valuable prize. He might admire them, and want to curry favor for
its own sake. I could imagine that it would make hunting more
interesting if victims knew he was coming and could try to resist him,
although non-vampire resistance was unlikely to be particularly
entertaining.

I decided -- for the time being -- *not* to mention Victoria. That would
make him angry. I needed him curious, ambitious, risk-loving, not angry.
And I didn't know how narrowly his taste for drama was beating his taste
for blood, that he could calmly drive me around. Anger could not tip
that balance in a good direction.

"Where are you taking me?" I asked after a few minutes.

"The airport," he said.

"Seattle?" I asked. "Or one of the little ones?"

"Seattle." The short answers didn't seem to be good green lights for
continuing to chat, so I dropped my head onto the car seat and tried to
fall asleep. I didn't quite manage it, but I did sort of half-doze until
we got to the airport.

I was just able, in spite of being tied up, to cross my fingers.

Volterra
========

I wondered, as I started to see signs for the airport out the window,
how vampires got through airport security. It seemed unlikely that
security scanning machines and the like would react normally to them.

By the time I was on the jet that James picked out, I still didn't know
how the Cullens would manage, but James did it by sneaking us into the
baggage compartment. He killed a man to do it. He didn't eat him. I
wasn't sure if he was full, or thought it would be too obvious, or
didn't want to drop into hunting mode and accidentally turn me into
dessert; but he just clobbered the guy over the head with a suitcase and
then arranged the scenario to make it look like the corpse had
accidentally dropped the luggage onto his own head. No blood.

I spent the duration of the murder crouching inside the luggage cart
that James's victim had been driving. I knew James would at least hurt
me, and likely kill me, if I tried to escape -- and besides, the only
people who I'd find useful rescuers wouldn't be confused by my hiding
place. They'd be able to smell or hear me anyway.

Traveling in the baggage compartment of an airplane was not fun. I
complained softly of hunger and thirst, and James was able to find a
packed lunch and water bottle with his superior sense of smell. From the
look of the bag he retrieved it from, it had been intended as a carry-on
and just barely exceeded the size limit. He didn't look thrilled about
having to feed me, but didn't complain about it either.

I ate it, and it tided me over until the plane arrived in New York,
where we had to change flights. James didn't kill anyone this time. He
stole a long hooded coat from someone's garment bag to hide under (dawn
was underway on the east coast) and loosened the latches on the door to
the belly of the airplane; when we were a hundred feet off the ground,
he kicked the door open casually, seized me, and fell gracefully to the
ground in a hail of instrument cases and upholstered sacks and cardboard
boxes.

James did not run with concern for my comfort. My ears were ringing with
wind. I knew vampires could move outrageously fast, and supposed that
the ground crew might be distracted by the luggage rain, but it still
seemed an awful risk. Maybe he was betting on the fictional Volturi
reward being retroactive. He leapt into the baggage hold of the next
plane. I couldn't see anything -- he moved too fast -- but he didn't seem
to have attracted the attention of anyone who wanted to investigate the
rapid dark shape hurling itself into the airplane.

This airplane had a caged dog traveling in it. It hated James and yowled
at him constantly. It seemed to irritate him, so he opened its cage,
strangled it, and then stuffed a luggage strap down its throat in case
anyone should happen to wonder at its death.

I wondered when I would start going into shock. Probably soon. I really
ought to be in shock. Perhaps I was, and hadn't noticed. I didn't know
what shock was like.

"Where are we going?" I dared ask, hours into the second leg of the
trip, after he'd found me another snack and an entire case of fancy
bottled water somebody was bothering to import.

"Italy," he said shortly.

The plane landed. Not one to repeat himself in making an exit, James hid
the pair of us in a corner. When the baggage handlers noticed the dead
dog, and started yelling at each other about it in rapid Italian, he
walked right out behind them, me in tow.

He broke into and hotwired the first fast-looking car he found in the
airport's parking lot.

And then we drove.

* * * * *

"How *did* you get through them to me?" I asked timidly, sitting next to
the vampire in the driver's seat.

"Well, it helped that I know the little one's secret," he said, as
though letting me in on a joke. The little one -- Alice? I'd
*suspected*...

"Her... secret?" Still playing dumb. Until he got me to the Volturi he
could decide to kill me at any time.

"Yes. She has visions, you see, of the future. A long time ago this
would have gotten her burnt at the stake... in the nineteen-twenties it
was an asylum, shock treatments, that sort of thing. She was the only
one who ever got away from me. She had a protector, just one, but he
made her safe, not like yours. I *was* surprised to see her with that
lot, though. Anyway, she can be fooled. They're only visions, not
knowledge. Did you know there are a lot of interesting sets to visit in
Hollywood?" He grinned to himself. "Indecision throws her off. I told my
Vicky all about it, that I'd tell her when to jump in, that she should
just wait. I only made up my mind to do things I wanted her to see --
everything else I dithered about even while I was doing it."

I nodded slowly. If I lived through this, I wanted to be able to tell
Alice where she'd come from.

But he was done talking about Alice. "That, and Sunday night, I nibbled
on some of your neighbors a bit. Hope you weren't attached to them. I
tied them up and gagged them so they wouldn't attract any attention with
their screaming, but I don't imagine that held them for long once they
woke up and noticed how very, very thirsty they were..."

He looked so *smug*. So that was how he'd distracted my three watchers.
He'd turned a confused bunch of newborns loose in the neighborhood, a
time-release threat, and *they* would have made themselves an obvious,
immediate danger to me and Charlie and everyone else in Forks. He would
have known when to expect them to finish turning.

It might have been sheer luck that Edward had needed to hunt on the same
night. James hadn't given any indication that he also knew Edward's
power -- but he was clearly an old, experienced vampire, and might have
bet on being able to take on one or two defenders in a fair fight, with
a flailing newborn coven and a false lead to Florida distracting the
rest. Sheer luck, that he'd found me entirely alone -- but skill, that it
had even been possible.

Did he actually believe my nonsense about the Volturi, or was he
pretending in order to lull me into a false sense of security?

I didn't poke at it. If I acted like he might not believe me, it would
only bring to mind the possibility that I was not to be believed.

"Wow," I said instead. "You're really good at this. If they'd made me
like them, you wouldn't have wanted me anymore? Like that little one?"

*Idiot!* I screamed at myself, silently in my head. *Idiot! Idiot! You
did not*really*prioritize! You would not have been significantly less
useful at self-defense if you were in the middle of turning*and then
James wouldn't have wanted you*and it would be*over already*. You'd be a
vampire by now, you'd be the other one that got away,*you knew*that
every other detail but your own survival was of secondary importance.
But you didn't get them to inject you with immortality juice because it
wasn't a*guarantee*and you thought you had your bases covered even
though you*knew*you were dealing with something deadly and powerful that
wanted you ended about which you had limited information...*

"Right," he said, unaware of my internal self-castigation. "Well, the
Volturi will still want you that way, but originally I only thought
you'd be an interesting meal. I'd have been very irritated with them for
taking away my fun, of course." *But then all his targets would have
been fighters in their own right, with a chance, not dividing their
attention and flying all over creation trying to protect three separate
squishy humans...* "I killed the one who changed your little friend."
*But the Cullens mostly come in pairs, and if I were a vampire by now
then*all*of them would...*

It would not make sense for someone as uninformed as I pretended not to
ask... "You said my neighbors were screaming?"

"Oh," James chuckled. "Yes. It's an intriguing process. You're sure the
one with the reddish hair's not a bit too fond of you? I could send him
a tape of that after the Volturi get it started."

I shivered. "I don't think he likes me at all. None of them do. They
were going to sell me to the Volturi, just like you. They'll be mad at
you about stealing their reward, I guess, if that's what you want?"

"Makes things interesting that way," he said, still smirking.

*Idiot!* I wailed in the unbroken privacy of my own mind.

* * * * *

Volterra was beautiful, in the way that any city occupied by vampire
royalty that might be either death or salvation would be beautiful.

James started muttering to himself about how, exactly, to track down the
Volturi, once we were in the city. He abandoned the car and followed the
heavily shadowed alleys between the tallest buildings, sniffing the air.
Eventually he caught some promising odor and led me -- assuming that I'd
follow, desparing of escape -- down a sloped tunnel-like alley which
ended in a brick wall. There was an open grate in the pavement -- it
looked like a sewer drain.

"Down there," said James. "Jump."

"I'll break a leg and then you'll have to carry me. I might actually die
from a fall," I said, "if it's deep enough and I land wrong -- and I'll
probably land wrong."

James groaned, picked me up, and hopped down into the hole without
arguing further. "I hope you're worth all of this," he mumbled to me,
setting me on my feet. He inhaled deeply. "You've got quite a flavor,
you know. Better be worth not getting a taste..." He stalked off into
the darkness. I followed him by sound, tripping frequently; he
eventually got annoyed and lifted me again. I didn't protest. I didn't
want to crack my head open under a city in Italy, not when I was *this*
close to heroically bluffing my way out of certain death.

We came to a large grate with thick, rusting bars of iron. Part of it
had been cut away and replaced with a thinner grille, which hung on
hinges and looked like a door of sorts.

James pushed this little door open with his foot. It opened into a
large, stone room, the far side of which was dominated by a heavy wooden
door. James had to put me down to pull it open; it was immensely thick.

Past this door was a fluorescently lit, unremarkable hallway. Pale walls
and gray carpet. Since I'd be able to navigate that, James put me down,
and I stepped forward out of sheer curiosity without even looking to see
if he wanted to go with more caution.

It really was just a hallway. But there were vampires in it.

* * * * *

There were two of them, tall but otherwise indistinct under black
shrouds, at the far end of the hall in front of what appeared to be an
elevator. I wasn't actually *sure* that they were vampires until one of
them spoke. The words were, naturally enough, in Italian. But his
musical, perfectly precise voice definitely belonged to a vampire.

James replied in the same language, gesturing at me with one thumb. I
caught his own name, but no other words stood out to me. The
conversation continued, becoming faster and more heated, until finally
the shrouded vampire who hadn't spoken cut in with an English sentence,
directed at me: "Are you a witch?"

I shook off the sensation that I was Dorothy Gale of Kansas, and gulped,
and said, "Yes."

"And your power?" inquired the vampire, from beneath her hood.

"I don't have a n-name for it," I said, stuttering slightly. I could not
blow this or I was certain I'd be killed. "Um... m-mental privacy, I
guess. It's sort of a... meta-power."

"That is testable," she announced. "You will come with me. Both of you."
She moved her head slightly, making it clear despite the hood that she
was talking to James as well. "Stay here," she told her counterpart. He
nodded.

I followed the female vampire into the elevator, as did James. She
touched one of the buttons, and it began to convey us upward. I felt the
urge to ask her name, but this was not quite the social situation that
it would have been with only humans involved. She shrugged the hood of
her shroud off; she was as ice-skinned as any vampire, with the same
burgundy eyes James had, and long black hair.

The elevator opened into a cozy, sophisticated, windowless reception
area. The walls were decorated with bright landscapes, and deep green
carpet covered the floor. Behind the mahogany counter in the room's
center sat a woman -- a *human* woman, with green eyes and too much
vibrance to her tea-colored complexion to be a vampire. She was in her
early twenties and pretty, but not eternally so. That was not in line
with what I'd been told of the Volturi's approach to secrecy. At all.

"Buon giorno, Santiago!" the receptionist said brightly to the vampire
woman. That was a phrase I could at least guess at. Just a greeting. If
it specified time of day, I didn't know -- I had no sense of time left
after the trip, not having had a chance to look at a clock. It was
probably Thursday, or early Friday, I thought. At least in Pacific time.
I didn't know Italy's time zone.

"Buon giorno, Gianna," replied the vampire -- Santiago. Her tone was
neutral. James seemed as confused as I was by the presence of a human,
but didn't comment. I followed Santiago and James as they went around
Gianna's desk and through a pair of wooden doors.

We went through a perfectly ridiculous maze of halls upon doors upon
antechambers upon stairs, and finally, what I thought was two floors
above ground level, we reached what appeared to be our final
destination. It was an immense, round room. There were no artificial
lights, just slits of windows letting sunshine in, and the only articles
of furniture were a number of massive wooden chairs, placed at irregular
intervals near the walls. There was a drain in the middle of the room.
This did not make a lot of sense on a second story as an entrance or
exit, like the one in the alley apparently was, but I didn't get the
opportunity to speculate.

There were a small handful of vampires in the room. Most of them wore
ordinary-looking street clothes, but the man who took notice of our
presence wore a cloak like Santiago's. The hood was down, and I noticed
as soon as I looked at him that he was not typical of the vampires I had
met. His skin was the customary white, but translucent, like onion or
frosted glass -- not like the marble of any given Cullen or Santiago or
James. His eyes *were* red, but with a milky cast over them, as though
he had cataracts. He didn't seem to have impaired eyesight, but I
supposed he could have had considerably inferior visual acuity compared
to other vampires without looking myopic to me. He wore his black hair
long, and it blended into his shroud.

"Santiago, you've brought us visitors," he said, sounding for all the
world like Santiago's dotty uncle who was only too pleased to have
strangers to welcome. He spoke in a soft, airy voice, just enough for me
to hear, and floated forth in a cloudlike drift. Where Alice moved like
a ballerina, this vampire moved like a soap bubble. The other vampires
in the room drifted to cluster near him. Some stood ahead of him. They
left his view clear, but were prepared to get in the way if James (or, I
supposed, I) should decide to attack. The rest coalesced behind him,
peering over each other's shoulders.

Santiago bowed deeply to him. When she straightened up, she moved
forward with one white hand extended. He placed his palm over her
knuckles and closed his eyes. A moment later, they broke the contact and
Santiago backed away. "Interesting," murmured the onion-skinned vampire.

That one would be Aro, then.

I glanced at James. He looked like every passing second made him feel
more strongly that this had been a bad idea. But he didn't speak up as
Aro regarded him -- and, intermittently, me -- with a look of calm
thoughtfulness on his face.

"I'm afraid," said Aro beatifically, "that you have been misinformed,
James."

* * * * *

"Misinformed about...?" James asked, clearly wrong-footed by Aro's
statement.

"This child," Aro said with a wave in my direction, "may well be a
witch. That remains to be discerned. But we have not spoken of her with
the coven you mentioned to Santiago. Nor have we made a practice of
offering permission to violate rules in exchange for the capture of even
so lovely a jewel."

James was starting to flick his eyes between all the vampires in the
room, of whom there were really quite a few.

"You have been lied to," Aro said, with a sorrowful look on his face
that had to be faked. "Rather cleverly, it would seem. My dear," he
said, turning to me and tilting his head inquisitively, "was that story
your invention?"

I nodded, not trusting my voice in that moment.

"Before we decide how to proceed, I should like to investigate your
witchcraft," said Aro, holding forth a pale hand.

I took six careful steps forward, resisting the temptation to look back
at James, and placed my fingers against Aro's. His skin felt nearly
normal for a vampire's, in spite of its unusual appearance -- hard, but
more brittle in texture, and colder than most.

He closed his eyes.

And then he opened them again.

"*Fascinating*," he breathed. "And one more test... Jane, dear one?"

He was addressing a physically young vampire, the shockingly beautiful
planes of her ivory face all the more startling given that she looked
perhaps fourteen. "Yes, Master," she cooed. Jane looked at me and smiled
like a little angel. Nothing happened. I blinked at her, nonplussed -- I
didn't know what she was meant to have done -- and her face twisted into
an awful mask of hate. She made a sound like an angered snake.

"Santiago, my pet, won't you fetch my brothers for me?" Aro said,
ignoring Jane's livid expression and soft hiss. "I believe they will be
intrigued to learn of our new guest."

Santiago bowed again, and then she turned about with a swish of her
cloak to retrieve -- presumably -- Marcus and Caius, who I surmised were
not present in the room already. James let out a small snarl, which
startled me enough that I whipped my head around to look at him like a
scared rabbit.

"James, my friend," said Aro soothingly. "It won't do for you to hold a
grudge against our charming little witch. She was clearly acting in
self-defense, as any reasonable person would. I should not like to have
to decide a fight between the two of you. I'm sure you realize that
while she would lose on her own merits, there is one thing you were
*not* lied to about." Aro stretched his paper skin into a broad smile;
it did not tear with strain. "We are very pleased with the acquisition
of witches. Perhaps you have a talent of your own, that let you capture
this charming young lady away from her guardians?" he guessed. "Will you
show me?" And he held out his hand again. I shuffled away, wanting it to
be possible for some Volturi guard member to intervene if James lunged
for my throat.

James approached Aro unwillingly, obviously conscious of all the eyes on
him. The Volturi were accustomed to being obeyed. They reacted to
disobedience with violence. James did not have time for inventive stunts
with newborns here: if he fought, he would lose.

The vampires' hands touched. Aro hummed to himself in thought while he
absorbed James's memories.

"You took a very serious risk with those new children you made," tutted
Aro when they'd dropped their hands.

James shifted edgily. He looked like he wanted to drop into a combative
crouch and kept thinking better of it a fraction of the way through. "I
knew the coven would control them," he muttered. "If they hadn't been
there at the right time, I'd have killed the newborns while they were
incapacitated with the change before taking the girl. They wouldn't have
exposed us."

"Mm," sighed Aro, tipping his head back to scrutinize the ceiling and
clasping his hands behind his back. "I suppose that in such a small town
it may have seemed a reasonable risk to take." James nodded dumbly.

I had turned to face the door whence I'd come, and so I saw the entrance
of two vampires who had to be Caius and Marcus, flanked by Santiago.
James turned to see who'd arrived. The two new arrivals had Aro's same
papery, fragile-looking skin and the same cataracts over their red eyes.
One had similar long, black hair; this one had a bored, detatched
expression. The second had hair as white as his face, and looked annoyed
by everything his eyes landed on.

"Marcus, Caius," Aro exclaimed in a jovial tone that didn't respond to
the others' visible emotions at all. "We have received such a lovely
surprise."

* * * * *

Aro summarized for his "brothers" the events from James's perspective in
his lilting, fanciful sighs. He skipped over trivialities like the
deaths of the baggage handler and the dog; apparently James had covered
those up to his satisfaction. Caius spoke little -- brief clarifying
questions -- and Marcus not at all, although at one time he got up from
the thronelike chair he'd gone to sit in to brush his hand against Aro's
and communicate wordlessly. Soon the explanation was complete.

"And, dear child," Aro said to me, turning his gaze in my direction with
a soft smile, "perhaps you could tell us the actual sequence of events
leading up to your coming to visit us?"

I inhaled deeply. If I were very, very lucky, Alice would have seen
where I was and the Cullens would already be on their way to retrieve
me. The only way to have our stories straight was if I told the truth --
*only* the truth, not necessarily *all* of it, although major omissions
of facts that could be obtained other ways wouldn't be wise. And of
course the Volturi were probably not accustomed to having to learn
things by being told of them out loud, so I had to expect they'd check
up on me out of caution.

I stumbled through a synopsis, stuttering at every third word. Partway
through, my vision swam and the vampire woman standing behind me had to
catch me to prevent my collapse -- the stress, inadequate food, and
insufficient sleep were catching up with me. I managed to retake my feet
and continue the story.

I had met the Cullen coven in Forks when I moved there. I'd gotten
suspicious of them, although I hastened to add that most people wouldn't
have my resources in connecting the dots and no one else suspected a
thing. They'd sort of adopted me into their family. There were plans in
the works to turn me at the beginning of the summer, where I could be
zipped away from home without arousing suspicion. Which, I mentioned
again, the Cullens were very careful about. James's coven had run across
us while we were out as a group. He, with his habit of hunting
interesting and well-protected targets, had fixated on me, which the
Cullens' talents had detected. I explained the plan of action, how they
had set it into motion, and the point of failure. I mentioned that my
father was a cop, and had the resources to make a fairly extensive and
inconvenient network of people curious if anything happened to me that I
wasn't around to explain. But I was clear that I definitely wanted to
become a vampire as soon as I could do it without arousing curiosity.
(It would have been smart if I'd gotten started turning on Sunday night
when that could have saved me from James; now that I was under the
Volturi's power, it would be no additional help. They could destroy
vampires without much expenditure of effort, and it was entirely up to
them whether I or James lived.)

I scrupulously avoided bringing up Victoria.

"Thank you, dear," said Aro, having listened with calm attention to my
entire haphazardly arranged narration. "We will now discuss our
decision," he announced, seeming to direct his voice particularly
towards a small vampire who couldn't have been more than fourteen when
he was turned. In fact, he looked like Jane's twin -- only slightly
darker blonde hair and thinner lips differentiated their faces, although
the boy's range of expressions seemed to be more neutral. He neither
beamed nor scowled.

The Volturi remained silent for a few moments, and I wondered if I was
just unable to hear their voices as they reverted to their inaccessible
pitches and speeds, but then I realized what they were waiting for.
James's eyes rolled back in his head and he fell like a ragdoll to the
floor. The fourteen-year-old immortal boy was gazing at the tracker with
a cold steadiness that unnerved me.

Then the child's red eyes slid up to look at me. I stood trembling, but
didn't experience whatever was causing James to lie limply on the
stones. If the boy was exercising his power against me, I was immune to
that one, too.

"Hmmm," Aro murmured. "It would seem that we cannot maintain our privacy
in the typical manner. But, my lovely, you seem to be in some distress
anyway. Perhaps you would prefer not to witness this when you could be
sleeping."

Sleep. Sleep sounded good. I was still in my pajamas, an old t-shirt and
soft flannel pants, from when James had taken me from my bed. Did
vampires have beds? Maybe that receptionist, Gianna, lived in their
compound and I could borrow hers... I nodded, wobbling again.

Aro inclined his head. "Oh," he said. "One question. What is it that
happened to James's mate, Victoria?"

"Dead," I whispered. James was still on the floor, unresponsive, and
didn't hear or couldn't react.

"Mm," sighed Aro. "Santiago, dear one, won't you see to our guest's
needs?" He waved at me dismissively.

I started to fall again, but Santiago whooshed across the room to break
my fall, and then I passed out entirely.

* * * * *

I woke up under a fluffy duvet, snuggled in a bed more comfortable than
my own. The room had a small window at the very top of the wall, which
let in enough light to tell me that it was daytime -- although I didn't
know what day, at this point -- and show me the contents of the room.
Apart from the bed, there was a spindly wooden chair, which held a
change of clothes. Under the chair was a basket with a lid. There were
two doors into the room: one was closed, and one was open enough to
reveal the little bathroom.

On top of the outfit was a handwritten note. *Please help yourself to
anything you need from the bathroom, and these clothes, and the food
under the chair. When you're ready, Santiago is waiting outside for you.
There is no danger and no hurry.* The note was signed "Gianna" --
apparently she knew English. It was the most welcome piece of paper I'd
ever seen in my life.

I took a long, hot shower. I brushed my teeth. I blew my hair dry. The
shampoo and other items were all labeled in Italian, but I guessed by
packaging and the odd linguistic cognate which things were what, and got
gloriously, spectacularly clean. I felt more alive and lucid than I had
in days.

Gianna had left me a blue t-shirt and a gray, swishy skirt. I was
normally a pants sort of person, but Gianna was taller than me, and if
these were her clothes, it made sense: the skirt would be more likely to
fit than a pair of jeans. I put them on and checked myself out in the
bathroom mirror. I looked basically normal. I could have been getting
ready to go to school. School couldn't have seemed farther away.

I opened the basket under the chair. Little cellophane bags of
snackfood, an apple, a dinner roll, a candy bar -- easy, quick food that
would have been fine at room temperature while I slept. I ate all of it,
even the oversalted chips, and then put the apple core and other debris
in the chip bag and discarded it in the bathroom's wastebasket.

I approached the other, closed door. Gianna had written that there was
no danger. I didn't know for sure if that was true -- but I'd been left
to sleep, safely, given the chance to clean up and have breakfast. That
didn't seem like the sort of treatment that would precede an execution
without notice. I was, it seemed, actually witchy enough to hang onto my
life. And related to an annoying enough profession to keep my heartbeat
until a time of my choosing.

I pushed open the door. Santiago, in her cowl, was indeed waiting
outside the door. "Hello, Bella," she said. She was the first person to
use my name since I'd arrived. I supposed Aro might have told her; he
could have gotten it from James, who had heard me introduced. Still, it
was a little surprising.

"Hello, Santiago," I said. "Uh... thank you for your help." Her eyes
were still burgundy, although they deepened to black around the pupil --
I was talking to a thirsty vampire murderess and I still felt stupidly,
profoundly grateful for her presence. Aro was vaguely creepy; but
Santiago had a professional demeanor that made her feel predictable and
safe. I was not designated food, and therefore she would not eat me.

The Volturi were killers -- but they were *lawful* killers. They could be
bargained with, reasoned with. I'd made a good call in luring James to
them.

"I'm to conduct you to the hall," Santiago told me.

"Okay," I said, and she turned without further explanation and led me
through the maze that was the Volturi compound. Eventually, once I was
starting to wonder if I didn't need to go back and sleep for a couple
more hours after all, we reached the same round room full of vampires
I'd been to before. "*La tua cantante!*" one of them was exclaiming as I
entered -- it sounded like Aro.

There were different vampires in the hall this time.

* * * * *

By the time I registered that I ought to look twice at the faces off to
the left, I was already swept up in Edward's intense embrace. "Bella,"
he whispered in my ear, holding me to him so tightly I was challenged to
draw breath. "Bella, Bella, my Bella, you're *alive*..."

"Did they tell you I wasn't?" I asked, winding my arms around him and
leaning my head on his shoulder. "I'm fine. I had a bad day, or two, but
I'm fine. How long have you been here?"

"Hours!" he growled. "They wouldn't let us see you..."

"I was sleeping. I really needed it. They could have let you in to check
on me, though," I frowned.

"Ah, but Bella, my dear," said Aro. He was sitting on one of the
chamber's thrones, hands folded, expression benign. "They might have
disturbed your rest. And, of course, we had much to discuss. It has been
too long since we have had a visit from our old friend Carlisle and his
coven."

I looked over at the other Cullens who had arrived: Carlisle and Esme
were there, but not the remaining four. "I'm sorry I kept you waiting,"
I told Edward, looking up at him. "I didn't see any way to get in touch
with you that wouldn't have been too dangerous until I finally got here,
and then I basically told my story and passed out."

"Don't be sorry," he said, squeezing me tighter. "I am so glad you're
safe. I can't believe I was so irresponsible -"

"Hey," I said. "It was my suggestion that you hunt, and if you hadn't,
you might have died trying to fight James off. Nobody we like is dead.
That is a good thing." I glanced at Aro. "Uh... What happened to James?"

Aro tilted his head. "You needn't worry about him anymore, dear Bella,"
he said smoothly.

"They didn't like his stunt with the newborns," Edward muttered in my
ear. "And didn't think they could control him as a member of the guard --
and they already have a better tracker."

I nodded faintly and leaned against Edward for comfort. There had been
more deaths than I liked, even if I had no reason to care for James or
his mate and hadn't known the baggage handler. Or the dog. "What
happened to the newborns?" I asked in a soft voice.

Edward twined his fingers in my hair. "Two are dead," he said, voice
full of regret. "The third was sufficiently under control that we're
trying to bring him into the family, but it's going to be hard for him.
He didn't have the warning you do. The others are at home now,
supervising him. I don't think you knew any of them." He listed some
names, none familiar -- the one who was still breathing was named David.
"They weren't able to kill anyone else," Edward assured me before I
asked, "before my family got to them."

"Is it safe for me to be around David?" I asked. "If it's not..."

Edward winced. "I thought of that. We aren't sure what to do."

"Maybe you'd better turn me early," I sighed. "We'll think of some
story..."

"On top of the story we're already trying to cook up to explain your
disappearance?" Edward asked. "And the disappearances of the three
legally dead? That's a lot of stories, Bella."

I frowned. "Right. It will smooth over better if I'm there in obvious
good health, fit to be seen in public. Uh..." I wracked my brain. "Do
the Denalis live in a more remote location? Would they take him?"

"It's a good idea, Bella," Edward soothed, cool fingers resting on the
back of my neck. "We'll ask them. But I think it's time we got you home
now."

"Okay." I relaxed into his embrace. I was tired of holding myself up.
"Oh. There's one thing I'd like to do first -- if it's okay." I glanced
over at the Volturi, who had witnessed our entire conversation with
expressions ranging from mild curiosity to bemusement to morbid
fascination. (I became more convinced that most vampires did not first
meet their mates as humans. I wouldn't have been such an interesting
sight otherwise.) "I want to talk to Gianna, and thank her." *And figure
out what in the hell she's doing here,* I didn't add.

"Of course. Santiago," said Aro with a small, flicking gesture. Santiago
bowed again, turned, and led me, Edward, Carlisle, and Esme into the
maze.

"Did you meet Gianna?" I asked Edward in a low voice. To let me walk,
he'd released me from his hug, but we were holding hands.

"I noticed her. We weren't formally introduced," he murmured. "What are
you thanking her for?"

"She left me these clothes, and some food, and I think I was sleeping in
her bed -- I don't know why else there would be a bed in here, unless
there are other humans involved."

"Just her," he said.

Santiago showed us to the room I'd slept in. Gianna was inside, changing
the sheets. I motioned for Edward and his parents to hang back while I
went in; Santiago swooshed away up the hall without prompting,
apparently expecting us to be able to find our own way out when we were
done.

"Gianna?" I said. I wasn't sure if her spoken English was as good as her
writing.

"Hello, Bella," she said, turning a pleasant smile on me. "I've put your
clothes in the wash, but they aren't done yet. Do you want me to send
them to you in America?" She had an accent, but it was faint and
pleasant, and didn't make her hard to understand at all. She chose words
quickly and confidently, so I assumed she'd been working with English
for some time, even if it wasn't her native language.

"No, thank you," I said. "Uh, do you want me to send you these?" I
tugged at the skirt, which swished around my ankles.

"They're yours," she said, patting my arm. "I hope I found you enough
food. I usually eat out, and only had a few snacks around."

"It was perfect, I came to thank you," I said. "Thank you, for the food,
and the note, and the clothes, and the bed -- it was just what I needed
to wake up to after the trip I had."

"It was no trouble at all," she assured me.

"Is this -- uh, looking after human visitors -- what you mostly do here?"
I asked. It felt like an intrusive question, only a hair more polite
than "What the hell are the Volturi doing breaking their own laws by
having you around?"

"No, guests like you are very rare," she said, not looking offended at
all. "I'm the human representative when the Volturi need to send someone
into a context where one of their guard would be too noticeable --
anything outdoors in the daylight, where they can't go cloaked. I handle
the laundry. When I'm not doing that, I sit at the reception desk -- you
saw -- but there aren't many receptionist tasks to do. It's light work."
She tossed her hair with a cheerful smile.

"How do you even get a job like this?" I asked. "They can't advertise in
the classifieds, Wanted: Representative/Laundress/Secretary for Vampire
Ruling Coven, and get serious answers..."

"They don't," she laughed. "I believed all the legends, when I was a
little girl. They tell a lot of vampire stories in this town. I never
quite stopped thinking they were true. And one day I decided to go
searching for them. I found what I was looking for." Her smile was
genuine, but closed, somehow. She didn't want me to ask too many
questions about that. She didn't want to tell me what would make her go
on a vampire hunt. She didn't want to share the story of how she'd
convinced them to hire her and not kill her.

I nodded slowly. "I need to go home," I said, "my father's probably
absolutely frantic -- but I just wanted to thank you. Um, if you have an
e-mail address or a phone number... We're probably the only two humans
in the world who hang out with vampires all the time," I offered, as a
rather pathetic excuse to keep in touch with her. I was mostly curious --
and a little afraid for her life. She hadn't been eaten so far; she
certainly might be later, if the Volturi tired of her. "We should talk
more."

Gianna had a tiny notebook in the pocket of her leaf-patterned skirt.
Clearly, a woman after my own heart. She wrote down an e-mail address on
it, and a phone number complete with country code, then handed me the
detached page. "I can't always answer the phone," she said. "I keep
irregular hours and I sometimes have business unexpectedly. I get to a
computer every three or four days. But I'd like to hear from you,
Bella."

I smiled at her. "Well, thanks again. Um, bye." And then I turned to go
back to Edward.

"Bye, Bella," called Gianna.

Edward put his arm around my shoulders after I'd pocketed Gianna's
contact information, and the two of us, followed by Carlisle and Esme,
made our way out of the compound.

Once we were out of doors, and in the car the Cullens had rented to get
around Volterra (with a sufficiency of window tint to let them be
unobtrusive), Edward handed me a phone. "Come up with a better story if
you've got one, but here's our idea," he said. "The illness you were
faking sometimes causes sleepwalking and erratic circadian rhythms. You
wandered onto the bed of someone's pickup truck, curled up there, and
were driven all the way to California without waking up or being
noticed, since you pulled a tarp over yourself to keep warm. When you
woke up in a parking lot all alone, you found a gas station, borrowed
quarters, and called me right away because you were embarrassed at the
prospect of asking Charlie for taxi money. Carlisle was in town for a
medical conference and I told you so, and sent him to pick you up. You
just met up with him and you'll be home in twelve hours. You are also
over your disease now."

It was a convoluted, ridiculous story, but I didn't have any other way
to explain why I'd disappeared from my bed, been gone for two days
without contacting my parents, and was about to return safe and sound. I
dutifully took the phone, dialed home, and recited the lies to Charlie.
He seemed incredulous, but I put Carlisle on the phone, who confirmed it
all (including the humbug about sleepwalking) with such a serious and
honest tone that I was half-inclined to believe him myself. I took the
phone back and told Charlie that, no, I didn't have the license number
of the pickup truck. He uttered a few fussing, fretting sentences, but
wasn't in a position to actually do anything. Finally, he let me off the
phone with a gruff, "I love you, Bells."

"I love you, too, Dad," I told the phone. "I'll see you soon." And then
I flipped it closed. "I wish I could tell him everything," I sighed,
putting my head on Edward's lap. The no-seatbelts precaution made it a
lot easier to move around freely in the car.

Edward stroked my hair and said nothing.

* * * * *

The way Cullens got onto airplanes was this: accepting pat-downs after
they made the scanning machines go absolutely haywire, complaining
vaguely of having "weird bioelectricity". When that didn't quite work,
outright bribery in large denominations. And, apparently, flirting with
the security officers. Esme made awfully compelling doe-eyes at one
portly fellow, accompanied by a flutter of Italian. He stammered at her
a little and waved her through, then looked hurt when she joined an
indulgent Carlisle and kissed him.

I was much easier to get through security: Edward had found my passport
in my room before leaving for Italy and the security equipment didn't so
much as blink a light at my passage. And the plane rides, spent in first
class and in Edward's arms, were much more pleasant than my other recent
experiences with aircraft. Particularly since I was welcome to any food
I wanted from what the Cullens received, and therefore had not one, but
four miniature cheesecakes. There was, however, a tense moment when I
described for him the tests Aro had undertaken of my witchcraft.

"He told *Jane* to try -" sputtered Edward, looking angrier than I'd
ever seen him except when he'd been roaring at James.

"It didn't work," I hurried to say. "Nothing happened. She looked really
upset about it. Why, what does she do?"

Edward's teeth were clenched so tightly I thought he might split a
molar. Carlisle explained for him. "Jane's talent is a sadistic one," he
said in a soft voice that carried to my seat and no farther. "She can
cause pain. A purely mental pain, but a disabling one. She is limited to
one subject at a time, and is restricted to victims in her line of
sight, but she's feared nonetheless. You are very lucky to have proven
immune."

"Oh," I breathed. Lucky indeed. I loved my witchy talent very much. "Uh,
and the boy who looks like her -- I didn't get his name? He doesn't work
on me either," I said.

"Alec," said Edward, finally relaxing his jaw enough to talk. "He is
Jane's biological twin. And his power is the opposite of hers in many
ways. He's anaesthetic where she is torture -- he turns off all senses,
even proprioception. He can affect several at a time and doesn't need to
look at all of his targets, but his power moves slowly."

That was consistent with what I'd seen. "James fell over when Alec
looked at him," I remembered. "I guess it's hard to stand up if you
can't feel where your legs are." Edward nodded with a sort of grim
satisfaction.

"What does 'la tua cantante' mean?" I asked him, changing the subject
from what grotesque powers I was protected from.

"It means 'your singer'," Edward said. "That's what the Volturi call
someone who smells the way you do to me -- they think of it as your blood
singing for me."

"That's kind of gross," I remarked.

"A little," laughed Edward. "They think it's a waste that I haven't
eaten you. They consider singers the ultimate delicacy. And Aro said
he'd never have believed there was a singer so powerful if he hadn't
smelled you in my memories."

"He read you." My stomach turned a little. I didn't like the idea of Aro
spying on Edward... or me, through Edward's eyes. I'd been careful not
to drop hints of my plans for world domination, but I wasn't too pleased
with the notion that Aro now had a full complement of memories of Edward
kissing me, Edward leaving me gifts, Edward carrying me through the
woods, Edward guarding me for days at a stretch. I hadn't liked Aro
before; now I liked him less.

Edward nodded, looking somber but not nauseated. "It's his standard
means of communication for anything complicated. Marcus rarely speaks at
all, preferring to simply transmit to Aro and let him do the talking."

"I'm glad my mind is safe," I murmured. "I wish yours were."

Edward kissed the crown of my head. "I'll admit it chafes at me a bit
that *I* can't read you," he said. "But I'm glad you prefer it that way,
since it doesn't seem there's any way around it."

"It's good there's no way around it," I said. "If there were, then Aro
could decide to coerce me into dropping the shield. Since I can't drop
the shield, he knows there's no point in threatening me or anything -- it
won't do any good. It's to my advantage not to be able to turn it off.
Even if I wanted to let *you* in, just having that ability would be
bad."

Edward looked thoughtful. The conversation lulled, and then turned to
other subjects: the Denali coven and speculations about how they would
get on with David; whether Laurent was still with them and how, if at
all, the news of his coven-mates' destruction could be broken; James's
knowledge of Alice's origins, and the development of a plan to send her
to the region where she'd woken, to search for herself in asylum
records. (I didn't like to think of Alice locked up in a psychiatric
hospital, especially not in the early nineteen hundreds. She was so
bubbly, and seemed to take so much joy in things, that it seemed
unreasonably cruel. And, on top of that, her visions were *true* -- or,
at least, were in her vampire life. I supposed they could have been
hallucinatory when she was human.)

Norway
======

After entirely too much travel, I arrived back home in Forks, alone in a
car with Carlisle. Esme and Edward had gotten out and were running home
to prop up my preposterous story, although Edward had promised to come
by and see me soon.

When I got in the door of my house, it was almost ten p.m. (Friday)
local time, and I was even about the right amount of tired. Charlie was
waiting up for me, and engulfed me in a tremendous hug when I lurched
through the door. "Bells, you're home! I missed you."

"I missed you, too, Dad," I said with a watery sort of smile.

"I called your mother," Charlie went on, and I winced; "she's expecting
you to get on the phone with her tomorrow, but I convinced her to leave
you be tonight."

"Thanks, Dad."

"Why didn't Dr. Cullen warn us that you'd sleepwalk ahead of time?" he
asked, looking over my head at Carlisle, who was sitting in his car in
the driveway. Carlisle waved, smiled, and drove off, having confirmed
that I was safely home.

"Uh, it's a really rare symptom," I said. "I guess he didn't think it
was worth worrying us about."

"Hmph," Charlie said. "Well, I'm glad you're better. You've looked under
the weather for weeks."

I hadn't thought Charlie had noticed -- Rosalie's drug schedule, and the
fortunately-complete-before-I-was-kidnapped egg extraction surgery, had
left me a little less than my best, but no one had commented. Well,
Edward had commented, mostly to see if there was anything he could do
for me, but he knew what was going on -- no humans had said anything
about it.

"I feel fine now," I assured him. "Just kind of tired -- lots of travel."

Charlie nodded, patted me on the head, and released me from the hug.
"Get a good night's sleep, Bells," he instructed, and I nodded.

When I got up to my room, Edward was already there.

"Your father would have turned me away if I'd gone by the door," Edward
explained. "But I did say I'd drop by."

"Soon, you said, not immediately," I laughed softly, not wanting to
alert Charlie to the fact that I was having a conversation.

"Immediately is soon," he countered, pulling me into another hug. He
smelled so nice. All of the vampires did, although there were variations
-- Esme reminded me of vanilla, for instance. I leaned on him sleepily
and inhaled.

"I'm tired," I announced.

"All right," he said, kissing my forehead. "I'll leave you be to rest;
James isn't after you anymore, thankfully, so you don't need constant
supervision."

"You could stay anyway," I suggested, half conscious, and then Edward
tucked me into bed and I was out like a light.

I woke up still in the clothes Gianna had given me. Edward was lying
next to me, on top of the covers that I was tucked under; I could feel
his arm around me. Through the blanket, I could barely tell that he was
cold.

"Morning," I yawned, burrowing my head a little deeper into the pillow.
It was Saturday, nobody was trying to kill me, and I could lounge in bed
all day if I wanted to.

* * * * *

Interestingly, my exciting week didn't prevent life from going back to
normal. Or rather, what had become normal in recent months. After Emmett
and Jasper went on a road trip to truck David up to Denali, I was able
to resume my visits to the Cullen house. Alice decided that she needed
to plan my wedding -- "after all," she explained, "even if you decide not
to actually get married when you tell everyone you are, you'll have to
send home convincing photos, so that means decorations and cake and
clothes!" She had a point, and I turned over the responsibility over to
her after securing veto power over anything I found absolutely
tasteless.

Gianna took ten days to reply to my first e-mail, which I sent the
Monday after my return. It had been a brief thing -- "I'm home safe, how
are you, thanks again for the clothes, what's up in Volterra". I was
fishing for tidbits with which to start some more substantial exchange,
and from there I hoped to segue into asking the questions that really
itched at me.

*Dear Bella*, her reply began. Apparently she was in the habit of
treating e-mails like letters.

*I'm glad you got home okay, and I hope everything continues to go
smoothly for you. I'm doing fine. Today I finally found out why Santiago
goes by a man's name -- it's not her name at all, it's the city she's
from. She didn't tell me her real name, though, and I try not to ask too
many questions in a row, because it makes them suspicious. Maybe I'll
find out the next time I talk to her. But she seems to prefer to go by
"Santiago", so I'm not sure how useful that would be. I have heard that
Carlisle, from your coven, lived with the Volturi long ago. Perhaps he
knows. Sincerely, Gianna*

This read to me like either an out-of-place bit of dwelling on
Santiago's name -- I hadn't even known it wasn't a girls' name -- or a
subtle direction to go to Carlisle, not Gianna, for info on the Volturi.
That was all well as far as it went. (And it might also mean they were
reading her mail.) But Carlisle had lived in Volterra before Gianna had
even been born, and it was her I was most interested in learning about.

*Dear Gianna*, I wrote a few days later, following the convention she
preferred. *I asked Carlisle and he says Santiago is a more recent
addition to the guard, so he doesn't know her name. During the entire
time he was there, in fact, no one new arrived. So he only knows a few
things about how they normally bring in new people. Apparently they go
out of their way to add witches, or rather vampires with extra talents,
but not everyone in the guard has one. How do people without extra
talents get admitted to the guard? Sincerely, Bella*

We went back and forth at a snail's pace -- short, oblique e-mails every
week or two. It was frustrating. I eventually gave up on figuring out
the details of how Gianna had come to work for the Volturi or whether
she expected to join them one day. I settled for newsy personal
exchanges. We both stuck to innocuous information that her bosses
wouldn't care about: I never told her if Jasper came close to slipping
up in public or anything about Quileutes. Gianna would mention if she
traveled internationally, but never specified city and only sometimes
told me the country. She often told me in glowing terms about her
favorite restaurants in Volterra, which was the very safest of topics
and was frequently mouthwatering to read.

Edward offered me once to tell me what he'd read off Gianna's mind when
he'd been nearby. I asked how much he'd listened to, and it wasn't much
-- enough to answer a fraction of my questions but not all of them. He
hadn't heard enough to know whether Gianna had a good reason to be
cagey, and that was the part that made me refuse. I had no idea how
often Aro read her, or how little it would take to turn her into a
snack. If the Volturi were reading the correspondence, and I
accidentally hinted something I'd learned from Edward, they could think
she'd spilled the beans some other way. Refusing information was *hard*,
but it was the sort of thing I'd need to be able to do if I was going to
spend any time with Edward.

* * * * *

The school year plodded on. Despite my weeklong absence and increasing
restlessness about the unstimulating work, I went on pulling good
grades. I was able to contain the story about my departure via pickup
truck -- among my classmates and teachers the blanket explanation for the
entire five days was "Bella was sick".

Edward and I continued brandishing our relationship at anyone who
wandered past. If anything, we had gotten more over-the-top. I started
talking about rings -- in the abstract -- with Jessica, and by the
following afternoon, the rumor was that Edward had already proposed.

He hadn't. In fact, ostentatious couplehood aside, nothing had changed
except that Edward had started staying overnight most days -- lying awake
next to me and listening to me (apparently) talk in my sleep. I made him
tell me what I'd said, every morning after the one on which he informed
me I'd been mumbling. It was usually names, Cullens and family members
and classmates. Sometimes it was incomprehensible fragments like "don't
the cake" or "prawns, where the rainbow is".

When his nighttime visits had been the only change by the end of April,
I was pretty sure he was disobeying Alice: he wasn't going *slow*,
because he wasn't *going* at all.

We had been dating for *months* and he still hadn't told me he loved me.

I knew perfectly well that he *did*. That was the thing -- I'd have been
in a far different sort of situation if Edward hadn't fallen for me.

I'd been informed that the Denali sisters brought random human men into
their beds all the time (previously to eat them in the style of the
praying mantis, lately just to have fun and send them home alive, albeit
bruised). They didn't rearrange their lives around those men, because
they didn't love them. But when Laurent had shown up, he and one of the
sisters, Irina, had been magnetically drawn to each other, and then no
more soft and warm boys for her -- a rather significant lifestyle change
for one of the inspirations of succubus myth. If I'd just looked like a
good time, while also being Edward's "singer", he'd have left town. It
wouldn't have been worth the risk of my exsanguination (and the ensuing
investigation into my death).

And even if that hadn't been the case, Edward was *really obvious*. The
way he looked at me just *screamed* that he loved me. The way he touched
me, the presents, the way he zipped about making sure that everything I
wanted was in place whenever I expressed preferences -- everything. It
was the plainly missing piece every time he spoke to me.

And he wouldn't say it.

The traditional way to elicit a profession of love was to offer one
oneself. I was sure that would get him to reply in kind. But I wasn't
sure it was true. I suspected it... but didn't know how to be sure.

I was tempted to just wait another month, get turned, and then have a
magical guarantee that I wouldn't be lying. But it didn't *just* bother
me that it had gone unsaid -- it bothered me that there was something
this significant that I didn't know about myself.

I didn't want to be witnessed at this particular exercise, so I found a
thick quilt to cover me and the laptop. I picked a Tuesday afternoon
when Jessica had canceled our study plans, and so Edward didn't expect
to monopolize me. I ensconced myself in my room and typed.

I put my thoughts right after the long, thorough diary entry I'd made
about the days I'd spent in James's control. (Unpleasant as it had been,
I didn't want to forget about it entirely when my human memories were
occluded by newer, sharper vampire ones: therefore it had to be written
down, where I could read it later and retrieve everything about the
description with perfect fidelity.)

Thinking about whether I loved Edward was unfamiliar and difficult. It
was like I was wading through mud. Laboriously, I typed. I certainly at
least *liked* Edward. I enjoyed his company -- he went to considerable
lengths to make sure that I would -- and I was attracted to him. I didn't
know how that added up to love, if it did, or if there was something
else that was supposed to be involved. Was there anyone I could *ask*?

The vampires were all out. They were all cases of love at first sight or
close to it (beforehand, for Alice), which I definitely *hadn't*
experienced. Their recognition of the state wasn't likely to be
informative to me. I didn't really want to have a conversation with
either of my parents that would throw my planned elopement into doubt,
and their marriage had ended in divorce anyway (although things seemed
to be working out for Renée and Phil so far).

I wondered if any of my human friends from school would be useful.
Jessica and Mike were still together, but they had a fractious and not
particularly intellectual relationship. Being Jessica's boyfriend meant
being Jessica's status symbol and her designated source of makeouts and
free dinners, and not much else. Angela *had* eventually gotten together
with the object of her affections, a boy named Ben. Their relationship
seemed more like mine than Jessica and Mike's. Angela and Ben were
content together, and did small things to make each other happy, and
seemed secure in their mutual affection.

The "secure" bit seemed important. That was possibly the thing I liked
most about Edward -- he was *safe* in the way no one else ever could be.
He couldn't get sick of me. He couldn't cheat. He couldn't hurt me --
well, accidents were possible, but only accidents. He couldn't even
*want* to do any of those things. He'd protect me with his life, if that
was what it took; he was resisting temptation I couldn't even comprehend
in order to be near me, and he did it perfectly every time.

Being with Edward was peculiar in many ways, simply because he was a
vampire, but in a sense, it was uncomplicated.

After I'd gotten this far I started feeling vaguely uncomfortable about
picking the subject apart by myself. It seemed like it might be Edward's
business, how I felt about him, and it was uncommonly challenging to
plow through this mess -- someone to talk to might help.

I poked at my keyboard for a few minutes more, disconsolate about my
inability to sort things out myself. I wished I'd dated more -- well, at
all -- in Phoenix, so I could say, "Oh, this is *different*, these
feelings are stronger/dissimilar, they're more
intrusive/altruistic/abstract/frequent/full of sex/*whatever*, aha,
perhaps I am now in love." No such luck. I'd spent my time single. I'd
focused on the more diverting schoolwork offered by AP classes, the
endless rotation of Renée's new obsessions, and books. Even the romance
novels were unhelpful: the characters didn't act like any real human
beings I'd met at all, and if I wasn't prone to comparable dramatic
exhalations about my uncontrollable ardor, it didn't mean anything
except that I wasn't meant to be watercolored on the cover of a mass
market paperback containing borderline porn.

The prospect of talking to Edward about whether I was in love with him
or not sounded extremely awkward. It would probably hurt him, I'd
probably trip over my tongue a lot, and it might not even lead me to a
definite conclusion. I could just put it off, just a bit longer.

But Edward was, above all things, *safe* to talk to. That wasn't true of
anyone else, and I wasn't getting very far on my own --

And I wanted to hear him say it.

I did my homework, reassessed my intentions for another minute, and then
called Edward. He agreed to come over as soon as I told him Jessica had
canceled and asked if he'd like to. Minutes later, he was at the door,
buttering up Charlie with gentlemanly formality and then slipping
upstairs to me.

As soon as he crossed into my room, his arms were around me and his lips
planted on my forehead. "Hello, Bella," he said, drawing his face back
an inch to look me in the eye.

"Hi, Edward," I said, simultaneously soothed to see him and anxious
about having the conversation I was about to prompt.

He noticed, of course. "Bella, what's wrong?" He pulled me to sit next
to him on my bed, one arm around me and the other holding my hand.

I dropped my head onto his shoulder. I decided to start with him instead
of myself, my motivations somewhere between wanting to work up to it and
wanting to simply put it off. "Do you love me?" I asked.

"Yes," he said at once, in a low murmur.

"You never say it."

"I didn't want to push you," Edward sighed. "You'll let me hold you,
you'll let me spend more time with you than I would have dared to ask
for -- I don't want to do anything that would jeopardize that. It's
already so much more than I deserve."

I picked my head up and stared at him. He met my gaze calmly. Did he
really think that? That I was "letting" him be near me? That my
permission was a fragile thing he had to tiptoe around? How could he
think that?

"Edward, I love you," I said, and I knew as I said it that it was true.

There was a silent moment, and then Edward was kissing me, and I had
just enough time to think *oh, I guess we can do that after all* before
my brain shut up and let me enjoy myself.

* * * * *

Kissing Edward was a lot like everything else about being with Edward --
sweet and easy. I had no idea how to be any good at kissing, but there
wasn't any need for me to be. It just worked. The conflict between
kissing and breathing meant I eventually had to pull back to inhale
another lungful of lilac-scented air. Then I kissed him again. On my
second attempt I discovered the useful habit of breathing through my
nose.

He was still cold, but this reminded me more of ice cream than anything
unpleasant. In one way, it was good that it hadn't come up that this
activity was safe until April. The weather was warming up a little,
leaving me comfortable even snuggled up to my vampire boyfriend as long
as I had a hoodie on.

"You know," I said after a break several minutes later, "I'd been under
the impression that there would be some venom-related issue. I should
have *asked*, I suppose."

"Really?" he asked. "How long ago could this have happened if I'd
mentioned that it was safe? Although it would be a bad idea for you to
open your mouth," he acknowledged, furrowing his brow. "In case you had
a cut or something."

"Months ago," I told him, and he looked at me incredulously and then
kissed me again. A few minutes later, I said, "So as long as I'm kicking
myself for not asking about *this*... Alice implied once that it would
probably not be safe while I'm human to..." I made a vague gesture.

"She implied correctly," said Edward, making another one of those
complicated faces. Impatience? Sorrow? Frustration? It was hard to
disentangle.

"But Emmett makes enough lewd remarks that I surmise that
*afterwards*..." I trailed off.

Edward nodded again, smiling slightly. "Emmett and Rosalie were very
hard to be around for the first decade after he joined us," he said,
wrinkling his nose. "I couldn't stand to be within five miles of them.
Esme and Carlisle kicked them out -- nicely, of course. Esme built them a
house."

I giggled. I couldn't help it. "I'm going to *love* being a vampire," I
predicted ecstatically, and then I kissed Edward.

* * * * *

April ended, and May began. School wouldn't end until mid-June. I
decided to ask Charlie's permission well in advance to go on the tour of
Europe with the Cullens, to give him more time to get used to the idea.
I didn't think he'd refuse, and he didn't, although he made me swear up
and down to keep in regular phone contact. I agreed readily. There was
no good reason to cut off my family just because I was going to turn
into a vampire.

Plans for the trip came together. We were, in fact, going to start in
Scandinavia -- Norway, to be specific. The Cullens just up and bought a
house there -- a big fixer-upper for Esme to play with in the middle of
nowhere, where I'd be unlikely to run into any unsuspecting humans by
accident while new. Houses in poor repair weren't that much of a problem
for vampires who didn't get splinters, urgently need working plumbing,
require creak-free places to sleep, or want electricity to see in the
dark or maintain a kitchen.

Plans for my transformation, also, took form. Edward and Carlisle
discussed, with very serious expressions on their faces, whether it
would be a better idea to induce coma or just flood me with morphine
before injecting venom. (Edward was already collecting it. I vaguely
liked the idea of it being him who changed me, even with a syringe
acting as intermediary.) Coma was eventually settled on, although they
didn't know how much of the process I could sleep through with the
transformation eating up the intrusive barbiturates.

Emmett wanted to tell me his story before I changed -- it was his opinion
that my change would resemble his more than anyone else's. He had, after
all, been found and loved by Rosalie before she'd brought him to
Carlisle -- and she'd been there when he'd turned.

He'd been mauled by a bear, that I knew. When he had started to lose
hold on consciousness, he'd heard what he'd thought was another animal,
fighting with the original bear over his carcass. It was Rosalie, of
course, making short work of the creature and picking up Emmett to rush
him home with her. He'd felt like he was flying, and managed to open his
eyes -- and then fought to keep them there, transfixed by Rosalie's face.

He'd thought she was an angel, had been confused when she didn't take
off into the air -- "And then she brought me to God," he related,
laughing. This impression of Carlisle (reasonable, I supposed, given
that Emmett had lost a *lot* of blood, and had already taken Rosalie for
an angel) led him to believe, when the transformation was underway, that
he had been sent to Hell. But, he said, Hell wasn't so bad because his
"angel" stayed with him -- every time "God" came to see how he was
progressing, Emmett had feared she'd be taken away, but she never was.
In spite of the sensation of hellfire, he considered his fate merciful
overall. And reacted, when it was over, surprisingly well to the whole
"now you're a vampire" situation. Although (he chortled, somewhat
inappropriately) he had some trouble adjusting to the Cullens'
lifestyle.

When Emmett had finished telling me his story, I thanked him, and went
straight to Edward. "When I'm turning," I said, "will you stay with me?"

"Yes," he said. He didn't hesitate, but it sounded like it was difficult
for him to say the word.

I winced. "I know I'll probably be awful to be around, once I come out
of the coma, screaming and crying and everything, but... it sounded like
it helped Emmett."

Edward nodded, and pulled me into a snug embrace, which I leaned into
gratefully. "I'll stay with you," he promised.

"And Rosalie said she could hear what you and Carlisle were saying to
her, during..."

"I'll talk to you," he said, understanding what I meant. "It might help
keep you distracted."

"And if it feels like fire..." I said, putting a hand against his cheek.
"You're pretty chilly," I pointed out, feeling sheepish. "Has it been
tried? Keeping turning people cold?"

"We haven't tried that, no," he said slowly. "It's not actually heat,
you know, only the impression of it."

"Could it hurt to try? I'm sorry, I'm sure this is going to be as awful
for you as it will be for me, but..."

Edward shook his head. "I'll hold you while it happens," he murmured,
lacing his fingers through my hair.

May ended, and June began.

* * * * *

The school year began wrapping up. Final exam study guides were
distributed. Yearbooks were sold. Summer plans were discussed with
animated expressions of jealousy or sympathy, depending. My advertised
trip to Europe with the Cullens elicited such dire looks of envy that I
considered telling everyone that I also expected to spend three days
being tortured by burning vampire venom. But of course that was a strict
secret.

I told Gianna, though. Part of me hoped the Volturi *were* reading her
mail and would be reassured that the date was set and I wouldn't go much
longer as a human-in-the-know. I didn't tell her the address of the
place in Norway, but I did mention that we'd be "just a bit north" of
her and mentioned that my first meal was probably going to be moose.

Final exams marched by. End-of-year parties were held, and Edward and I
showed up to some of them. Rosalie, Emmett, and Jasper, all in senior
year while Alice and Edward were juniors like me, graduated. We went to
watch them, and I wondered how many times each had worn similar caps and
gowns, listened to similar valedictorian speeches, walked across similar
stages. I asked Rosalie, later, and she said, "Me? Ugh, too many times."

"Why do you keep going to high school? College would be more
interesting, wouldn't it?" I inquired.

"It is. Had a bit of a problem with somebody actually *calling* my
imaginary high school alma mater once, though, so now I just sit through
a year or two of this," she gestured in the direction of the school
building, "and go with a partially real transcript."

Saying goodbye to Charlie was difficult, but familiar. I'd left him for
long periods of time after comparatively short visits every summer I
could remember -- it was just usually fall, not summer, when I did it.
This time, I knew something he didn't: that I might not see him in
person again for years -- if ever.

I hugged him an extra time. It was all I could do.

The Cullens put cloths over everything in their house and garage,
protecting it from dust, and then loaded three rental cars with bags and
cases and boxes. I asked how many houses, full of furniture and
hard-to-transport possessions, they had scattered around the world.

"If you leave out the ones that we're renting out, and include the one
in Norway," said Edward, "twelve."

I whistled. He laughed and kissed me. We were sharing a car with Alice;
Carlisle and Esme were in another, and Jasper, Emmett, and Rosalie
shared the last. (I suspected that Jasper was not in our car because it
would be challenging to share such an enclosed space with me for that
long. Soon, there would be no such problem.)

We arrived at the airport, slipped through airport security with
minimized suspicion, boarded our airplane -- first class again -- and flew
to Norway. Our flight itinerary had several hops, finally ending in the
Bergen Airport. All of the Cullens had learned Norwegian for the
occasion to interact with airport personnel, although Alice informed me
that their accents were terrible for the time being, having been learned
only from books and limited recordings. I stayed silent and let them
speak for me. There would be plenty of opportunity to learn the language
far more efficiently later.

The house was a big wooden thing. Esme looked like she was in love with
it as soon as we drove up in the rentals we'd gotten in the city.
(Rosalie planned to go shopping for cars later on, but rentals were
faster to obtain compared to the nice sorts of cars the Cullens liked.)

While Carlisle prepped a place for me to do my turning and unpacked the
necessary equipment to render me comatose, Edward scooped me up and ran
me out to the coastline nearby so I could have a look at the view.

The fjords were beautiful.

When Edward got Carlisle's mental message that everything was set up, he
murmured in my ear, "Whenever you're ready, Bella."

Was I ready? I leaned on Edward and thought about it. I was pretty sure
*being* a vampire would be excellent. I was afraid of the process.

Three days, minus the duration of the coma.

"There's no way to stop it once it's started, right?" I asked. If I
could commit, now, to sticking it out, if I'd come through it whether I
liked or not, whole and psychologically intact... that was fine. If
there was some chance that I could beg and plead until Edward couldn't
stand it anymore and undid the progress, then it would be for nothing.

"No," he told me. "Bella, you can back out now, if you want. I promise I
won't let anyone resent you for it. It's entirely up to you. If you want
to wait, or change your mind, we can really just go on a tour of Europe
with your heart still beating. You don't have to do this."

"I *want* to be a vampire," I said. "I'm just not... totally unmoved by
the steps I have to take to get there."

He kissed my hairline. "You don't have to do it," he repeated.

"I'm going to," I said firmly. And then, with less confidence -- "You'll
stay."

"I'll stay," he promised. I looked into his eyes. He would stay, because
I'd need him, even though every time I so much as flinched it would hurt
him too.

I knew I had recently been uncertain, because I'd written it down, but
*how* had I not known I'd loved him?

"I'm ready, then," I said, "as I'll ever be."

Edward picked me up, held me tight, and brought me back to the house. I
ate a square of chocolate -- the last time any human food would taste
good to me. I let it dissolve on my tongue slowly, and then I went to
the room Carlisle had selected as the site of the transformation.

I kept my eyes closed throughout the entire procedure while Carlisle
drugged me into unconsciousness. I knew that once I fell asleep, Edward
would plunge a vial of venom into my heart, and more into major pulse
points -- the more venom there was, the faster the change would be over
with. I slipped away into darkness.

I awoke in flames.

Newborn
=======

The pain was *nonsensical*. For the first moment of consciousness, my
brain examined the sensation and rejected it as obviously preposterous:
it was not the sort of thing that happened. There could not *be* that
much agony all in one instant. My nerves were obviously sending
defective reports which could be safely ignored.

But the fire was more persistent than that, and apart from the first
split second, I was very aware of what was happening.

It was everywhere -- there was no refuge, no cool place to focus my
attention and escape. My eyes were cooking in their own fluids, my blood
was boiling in my veins, my skin was baking and browning and turning to
ash, my bones were dissolving in acid, my lungs were turning every
shallow breath I compulsively swallowed into superheated plasma, my
organs were twisting and roiling in a bath of magma.

I tried to jerk my body away. It was purely a reflex action -- there
*was* no "away" -- but I was in no condition to fight the impulse. Dimly,
I recognized that I hadn't moved. My muscles worked. Even in their
screaming, melting contribution to my anguish, they would tense and
release when commanded. I could twitch my fingers, but not flail myself
across the room in a vain attempt to escape the burn.

*Edward*.

He was holding me, as he'd promised -- keeping me still. He'd been right
after all -- the coolness might as well have not been there. There were
no bands of reduced scorching where his arms wrapped around my body. But
I knew he was with me.

The pain didn't diminish at all. It would have more than consumed the
brainpower I'd had available -- before. But the change was well underway,
and there was more room in my head...

There was just a little corner of space left, somewhere in the back of
my mind, that I could use to think.

"*Time*," I demanded, biting out one syllable before clamping my jaw
shut again, and hoping he knew what it meant.

"You slept through the first thirty hours and fifteen minutes," he
whispered in my ear at once. I focused every bit of attention I could on
his voice. I wasn't sure if I was hallucinating or not when I thought I
could hear more nuance to it -- were my ears already improved? They were
part of the conflagration with everything else. Ear-shaped furnaces on
either side of my head. They could pick up sound anyway -- and his voice
was tense, miserable, but committed. He hated that I was in pain. That I
was awake to hear what he said. But he *would* stay. "It's a quarter
after four in the morning. Thursday. It should all be over at ten p.m.
tomorrow if you're on time -- you might be faster with all the venom in
your system." He spoke through gritted teeth.

Tomorrow. Over tomorrow.

But not yet.

I burned.

* * * * *

It took almost a full hour after my awakening before I truly wanted to
die.

This desire was almost as alien as the pain had been. (Now the pain was
familiar, which meant only that I could individually dread each of the
thousands of minutes that remained of my torment.) I had never
previously wanted death, my flippant remarks to Edward about what he'd
do if I begged to die notwithstanding.

But nothing was worth this. I couldn't do anything in a millenium that
would be worth another hour, even if it would then end. I couldn't do
anything with the rest of eternity that would be worth the dozens that
actually remained.

At five o'clock in the morning on Thursday, I hoped with every fiber of
my wracked and broiling being that he had lied when he'd said he
wouldn't kill me, even if I begged.

I begged.

Choking on the words, hating the air that I formed into pleas, I asked
to be killed.

"No," said Edward, sounding like he was in as much pain as I.
Impossible. "Bella, no. It will be over soon. Tomorrow."

I hissed. Somewhere along the line I'd acquired vampire sounds, or at
least that one. "*Please*," I screamed.

"No." I thought I heard him moving; maybe he was hugging me tighter. I
couldn't tell. Everything was fire and agony; nothing as trivial as
Edward holding me was worth sending a message through my fried and
shattered nerves. I didn't want him to hug me unless he was doing it to
crush me to bits, to end it, to make it *stop*...

I emitted a wordless wail.

Time passed. I begged for death, intermittently, but Edward always
refused. Sometimes his denials were weaker or tireder than others, less
resolved, and then I thrashed and cried and sobbed. Maybe if I hurt him
enough with my pain he'd want me to stop, want to let me have the only
thing I could remember ever wanting.

There was no such mercy. He didn't wrench my head free of my shoulders,
didn't plunge his hand past my ribs to remove my inflamed, still-beating
heart. He wouldn't kill me.

After a few fruitless tries to convince Edward to salve my pain, I
started calling for others. Alice, Carlisle, Esme, Jasper, Emmett,
Rosalie. I could hear footsteps when they came. I heard each of them say
no. Alice added a reassuring description of myself in the future, whole
and strong and a vampire. "You're going to be beautiful," she promised
before she left. Edward sighed in relief, when she said it. Some pretty
vision. Not pretty enough to be worth this.

But when I called Rosalie, she hesitated for just a moment after I
asked.

Edward *roared*. Had he been that terrifying when he'd snarled at James?
It might simply have been my hearing, more powerful with each passing
minute of conflagration, picking up some layer to the sound I'd missed
before. But I knew what it meant. *She'd thought about it*. She'd
considered killing me. Emmett's blessed angel, truly, perhaps to deliver
me --

"*Rose*!" I screeched, seized with hope, convulsing in Edward's grip.
"Rose Rose Rose Rose Rose Rose Rose -"

"*NO!*" howled Edward. "Rosalie, get out of this room. I'll tear you to
pieces if I hear that thought ever again, I'll do it -- *go*."

"*Roooooooooose,*" I moaned. But her swift steps were receding. I
thought I might have heard her leap out of a window.

"Bella," said Edward. He was speaking very fast -- I could keep up now,
though it took most of my spare mental capacity. "Bella, please don't
ask any more. I'm begging you. I can't stand it. I'll do anything you
want but let you die. *I can't do it*. Anything else."

"Can," I fought to utter several different syllables in a row, bereft of
the chance Rosalie had almost offered, "can, you, break, my, spine."

"What?"

"It... will heal. But I'll -- feel -- less -- till -- then," I gasped, and
then helplessly I screamed again. "Maybe," I panted.

There was a still silence for a quarter of a second. (Durations of that
length were becoming acutely important to me, and agonizingly distinct.)

Then there was a tiny sharp pinch at the base of my neck, and everything
from my shoulders down went limp and blissfully numb.

I breathed, still, and I could hear my own heartbeat, but there was no
sensory information from anything below the break. Edward's medical
knowledge to the rescue -- he'd known just what to sever. My neck and
head burned still, unimproved, but the loss of torso and limbs was such
a dramatic relief that I felt as though I'd been plunged into a tub of
ice water.

"*Oh,*" I sighed.

"It won't last the rest of the transformation," Edward warned. "And I
can't do it again. Once it heals, it has to stay that way, or you might
not come through properly."

"How long?" I asked softly.

"I don't know. Maybe a few hours."

A few hours. A few hours in which only my throat and face and scalp and
skull would be razed by the venom. But it was something.

I wished I could sleep. But I would never sleep again.

I was nearly lucid until my spine healed. I was able to open my roasting
eyes and look at Edward's face, drawn and haggard with concern but still
beautiful. I could emit complete sentences with only a few extra pauses
for difficult, unrelieving breaths.

"I'm sorry," I huffed, "for asking."

He bent to kiss my blazing forehead. "I forgive you." He didn't repeat
the plea that I not do it again, after the lower part of my body was
back. Maybe he knew I wouldn't be able to resist.

"I love you," I said.

"I love you," he told me, looking intensely sorrowful. No "too". He'd
never appended the word. Once I'd asked him why -- I tried to conjure up
the answer -- it was too difficult. No memories were still clear through
the haze of pain. I doubted I could remember my parents' names. I'd
written everything down...

Two hours, thirty-four minutes, and sixteen seconds after the break, my
spine welded itself back together and I was plunged back into the
unrelieved full-body agony.

Once again, I screamed.

* * * * *

I could feel my mind becoming more capacious. It was like a fractal
pattern, slowly sprouting new nodes. I came to have an ever more nuanced
appreciation for each individual lash of fire that flayed my body, and
every moment of the experience was indelibly recorded in my
crystallizing perfect record of my vampire life. But the little space in
the back of my head, which wasn't focused on the pain, also grew.

Edward talked to me. I clung to his voice like a lifeline. I could still
barely feel his arms around me, or the occasional kisses he touched to
my skin, and I kept my eyes clenched firmly shut, but I could hear him,
better with each elapsing hour. He gave me tips on controlling my thirst
once it came. He read off Alice's weather forecast for the next month.
He recited books. He promised me, over and over, that I had been right,
that I would love being a vampire, that Alice saw it, that her vision
was solid as rock, that everything would be fine and that he loved me
and that it would be over soon.

I tried to believe him. Tried to believe that there was some way that,
on the other side of the pain, there was something worth it all. Tried
to believe that, after I came out of the kiln, I'd have been fired and
glazed to such a sheen...

At eight in the evening on Friday, I felt my toes and fingertips cool
ever so faintly. The fire receded languidly, taking its time. But as it
pulled back from my extremities, it collected in my heart and my neck.
The centers of my pain folded in on themselves until they were worse
than ever, and even my newly cool extremities didn't quite compensate.
My heartbeat fluttered faster. My throat ached. "It's almost over,
Bella," Edward whispered. "Almost over."

I hadn't even finished changing, and I was already thirsty. Before I
might have been boiling -- now I was clearly devoid of liquid. My parched
throat demanded relief. I knew what Edward had meant when he'd
speculated that *some* vampire must have tried drinking water. Anyone
who came out of the transformation alone, confused, far from
sweet-smelling humans, would find it the logical thing to try.

The flames continued to pull inward, up my limbs, millimeter by
millimeter. My throat didn't get any worse or better after the initial
dry burst, but my heart did, as more and more of the agony drew towards
it. Every beat came sooner after the previous one. It was vibrating like
a hummingbird's wings.

The intake of pain sped up as my pulse did. It was as though the doomed
organ was trying to escape, to beat its way out of my ribcage, to drill
a hole through something and thrum away from me. My limbs were entirely
comfortable, but I couldn't pay them any attention as the heat raced
towards my frenetically pounding heart. It contracted and constricted,
assaulting my last living organ as it thudded in panic.

By this time I was thrashing, unable to avoid the reflexive attempt to
escape the pain in my chest. I keened an awful, shrill noise. Edward
held me, and I couldn't get far. But then my heart skipped one beat, and
spasmed one final time and released forever -- and the pain was gone --
and my pointless lunge in a random direction actually broke Edward's
grip.

My limbs automatically arranged themselves beneath me as momentum
carried me. I crouched low to the floor, fingertips splayed out to touch
the wood. My balance was absolute and certain. My muscles were
unprotesting: they would hold me in this pose for a hundred years if I
cared to remain still. I noticed that I wasn't breathing, and pulled in
a lungful of air. It smelled mostly of Edward, a scent I recognized
instantly, although just as promptly I discarded all my earlier
analogies to flowers -- I knew no flower would smell like that to my
newly precise nose. It didn't relieve a lack of oxygen, because I didn't
need any such thing, but it conveyed information, and my breaths settled
into a natural rhythm to tell me what was in the air around me.

"Bella?" murmured Edward, his voice tentative but filled with awe.

I opened my eyes.

* * * * *

I was facing the wall. But it took me a moment to realize that it was a
wall I was looking at, because I was captivated instantly by the beauty
of the sight. My eyes drank in every detail of the woodgrain with
perfect clarity. I could see each splinter, detect every subtle change
in the color of the wood, see each divot and patch of wear and uneven
stain. It was intensely lovely, and I stared.

"Bella?" Edward said again.

As soon as I decided to get up and face him, I was on my feet, looking
his way. My body responded to my commands with delicious obedience. It
swiftly composed itself as I wished it composed. It didn't pitch me in a
wrong direction, or let any part dawdle, or catch on invisible
obstacles, or protest at any motion. I noticed as I whirled around that
the turn didn't blur my vision at all: the boards in the wall spun past
without losing any definition, even when they passed into peripheral
vision. My change of posture was so fast that I'd had only a tiny
fraction of a second to notice this advantage, but I was more than quick
enough to pick up on it anyway.

Edward was spectacular.

I had been staring at the *wall*, thinking it pretty; I'd spent months
as a human, looking at Edward, finding him appealing. Insanity. I'd seen
only his shadow. With *these* eyes, he was like some kind of deity,
radiant and sculpted. Like nothing I'd ever seen before. I enjoyed a
moment's skepticism that even Rosalie, even seen with this new and
astonishing sight, would be the aesthetic equal of the vision that was
Edward.

I took another deep breath, tasting the air. Still mostly Edward. There
was an unsatisfyingly damp, but alluring, smell under that, which made
my throat itch and burn -- myself as a human, having left traces? I tried
to ignore it, and succeeded at shoving the thirst and the distracting
odor into a little-used back nook of my expansive mind. I smelled more
pleasant wafts from the direction of the door, heard more breathing than
just mine and his. I turned my head twenty degrees to bring the others
into my field of vision without losing the stunning sight of Edward. All
of the Cullens were there, clustered together, looking at me with
anticipation.

All right, Rosalie *was* still the most beautiful person in the world, I
grumbled inwardly -- and then I noticed the light glinting off Alice's
teeth, exposed in a self-satisfied grin. The light bounced into my eye
in a spectrum of *eight* colors, the last dazzlingly novel.

"No one told me," I said in a voice like the bells Charlie liked to
nickname me for, "that we can see in *ultraviolet*."

* * * * *

When I spoke, it sent the others into a flurry of conversation and
excitement. I could quite easily track the threads of their discussion:
Carlisle wanted me to tell him everything I could remember about the
transformation, to know how much help the coma and the broken spine had
been. Alice wanted to put me in nicer clothes and get me in front of a
mirror.

Edward thought I ought to hunt immediately to relieve my thirst (I
wished he hadn't said that; it brought what had been a minor discomfort
to the forefront of my mind, turning it into a consuming need, and I had
to spend a fair amount of effort wrestling it back to the niggling
irritation it had been).

Jasper (I took a moment to be bowled over by his scars -- so clear!
They'd been unobtrusive, faintly raised crescents before -- now they
stood out, his most obvious feature, and told some instinct I'd sprouted
that this was a dangerous fellow, to have survived so many fights, to
have killed every enraged vampire who'd laid teeth on him) kept flicking
his eyes in my direction nervously. Wondering when he'd have to
intervene to calm me, perhaps. Emmett was laughing, sounding fraternally
proud of me.

Rosalie had an apologetic look on her face -- maybe she felt bad about
having thought about killing me when I'd asked her. I would have to make
sure she knew that I didn't hold it against her. I'd literally begged
for it -- and I *normally* did prefer that people act as I requested, so
if her disposition to do so had gone a bit far, it wasn't the worst sort
of vice. Esme was just gazing at me maternally. Part of her family now,
for all time -- I liked the idea of her filling that role, while Renée
was necessarily distant.

While I didn't have trouble processing this information as it came in,
it did fill up more of my mind than I wanted to have occupied with it. I
wanted to look at the beautiful world, to smell the exquisite scents, to
dance with my new docile body, to read every file on my computer, to
hear what music sounded like with vampire ears, to learn Norwegian, and
to take advantage of my being durable enough that Edward could touch me
without that vigilant gentleness.

"Excuse me," I said, and then I smiled to myself, enjoying the timbre my
voice had acquired. It was musical. Perhaps I could sing, now -- I'd been
hopeless at it before.

Seven pairs of eyes twitched over in my direction. "What is it, Bella?"
Edward asked solicitously.

"I wasn't unbearably thirsty until *you* brought it up," I said. My
irritation about that flared up, and Jasper leaned forward, but I shot
him a look and -- I was fairly sure without help -- forced it down. My
thirst was clearly not behaving normally, and so Edward couldn't have
known what would set it off. It receded, although slowly. More room in
my head meant more room for emotions to bloom and take over suddenly, it
seemed. Once Jasper had stood back, I looked in Edward's direction
again, smiling without meaning to as I watched his flawless face pull
into a chagrined frown. "If you think it's a good idea to hunt soon,
I'll do it anyway, but I think we have time to give Alice what she wants
first," I went on. "I assume you have an outfit in mind?" I asked,
turning to the smallest of the vampires.

Alice nodded rapidly, still wearing a broad, thrilled grin. "Come on,"
she urged, and she led me past everyone, out of the room and up the
rickety stairs. Esme hadn't gotten to this part of the house yet -- or
perhaps she was waiting for parts. We reached the room that -- to judge
by the décor -- Alice had chosen for herself. (As in the Forks house,
Jasper was presumably a co-occupant, but his personality was not evident
in the layout or objects.) Alice presented me with a sapphire blue silk
dress; when she shook it out, I learned the lush smell of the fabric and
the unique sound of its rustling.

"Alice, this is nothing like anything I'm liable to wear when I choose
clothes for myself," I pointed out.

"Please, just this once?" Alice said coaxingly. "You only get to see
yourself for the first time once. It should be in something pretty. It's
just exactly your size -- it won't fit anyone else. Too short for Rosalie
and too long for me and too small for Esme. It's all yours. Please?"

I sighed and held out my hand for the dress, when I heard someone
approaching up the stairs. I turned my head just enough to catch the
sight in my peripheral vision: Jasper. He looked edgy, expecting
something to happen.

"I'm about to change clothes, Jasper," I told him, a little annoyed -- I
clamped down on that emotion as soon as I noticed it, to prevent it from
swelling and taking over the better part of my new and improved brain.
"I'd rather you not be present, if that's okay." Sarcasm tinged the
words. I really did not prefer that he follow me. I felt a snarl rising
in my throat, but, with the help of the instinct that made Jasper's
scars scream *danger! don't challenge him!*, I restrained it. That would
only justify his nervousness.

He ground his teeth a little. "I would feel better if you had hunted,"
he muttered.

"I would feel better if people stopped bringing that *up*," I snapped,
touching a hand to my throat. My skin was as cool as any vampire's now,
I supposed, but I was the same temperature as myself -- it felt normal to
me. Only in temperature, though: it was incredibly smooth, and although
I knew I'd have no trouble pressing my fingertips into my neck, I could
tell that I was tough as rock to any non-vampire assault. "It makes it
unpleasant. It's fine when I'm thinking about other things."

He frowned, still staring at me. I rolled my eyes, counted to ten
lightning-fast in my head, and then shut the door on him. Alice giggled.
"It's okay, Jazz," she called through the door. "Bella is *just fine*, I
promise."

I changed into the dress. It was fitted quite tightly, although the
zipper was long enough that I could get it on without ripping it. I
found I was very sensitive to how much tension I put on the fabric: I
could always stop short of damaging any fibers, even though it would be
nothing to my strength to tear the dress to shreds. Or the house, or a
fjord. Interestingly, the hardness of my skin hadn't sacrificed any
tactile sensitivity. It was improved with all my other senses. I could
feel each thread of silk individually gliding along my hand when I
picked up a fold of the skirt and let it fall.

"The *sensations* are so amazing," I breathed to Alice, and then I
looked at the lightbulb in her room, marveling at the color. I picked up
the pleat of my skirt again, let it brush my knuckles. "The silk is
wonderful. Ultraviolet is beautiful..."

"*You're* beautiful," gushed Alice. "Come on, come on, Esme got you a
mirror, it's in the room you changed in. Go down and have a look!"

I opened the door and, with a pointed look at Jasper, glided down the
stairs. I couldn't wait to do something really cool with all my grace
and speed and power, but it was new enough that even descending to the
first floor was interesting. I stepped lightly. I was only a little
heavier as a vampire than I'd been as a human, but much more capable of
distributing my weight according to the strength of each step. My ears
and my bare toes picked up enough information to tell me which places
were best to place my feet.

The house smelled strongly of wood, of some kind, but I didn't know
enough about woods to identify the type. It might be several kinds, I
decided with another breath. I reached the bottom of the stairs -- I
hadn't rushed; large steps or sudden movements would stress the silk
dress. I re-entered the room I'd spent the last three days in, noting
the differences in the air between rooms -- the circulation was
different, the smells were confined in different ways, the small sounds
of the house and the breathing vampires echoed differently.

"Bella," Alice prodded, rousing me from my enjoyment of the acute
sensitivity to my surroundings.

"Bah, fine," I said, and I located the mirror and went to stand before
it.

* * * * *

*Oh.* I really *was* beautiful. Every bit as lovely as Esme, or Alice,
although I doubted anyone would confuse me with either. In fact, I was
almost unrecognizeable. My hair was the same: brown, a bit past my
shoulders, and very messy from all the thrashing about I'd done. I
combed my fingers through it carefully while I continued to inspect
myself, enjoying the soft feel of the strands and the efficient
dexterity I could bring to bear.

My eyes were bright crimson. The color wasn't intrinsically unpleasant,
but it still didn't seem like a *good* color for eyes -- it meant I was
full of human blood, albeit only my own. "How long will my eye color
stay this way?" I asked softly, addressing the question to the room
while I attended to my hair. Alice danced up the stairs and returned
with a hairbrush, which she put in my hand; I switched without pausing.

"A few months," soothed Edward. "Animal blood will change the color
faster than human blood would. They'll go amber, then gold -- then
they'll be like ours."

The word "blood" made my throat flare up again, and I frowned a little.
I continued to examine the features reflected in the mirror. I supposed
I still looked a *little* like myself -- although memories of looking at
my human face were hard to retrieve, even though I had only a few
minutes of vampire memories to push them aside. But I thought the top
lip was still a little too full to match the lower lip, as before. That
was something. I tilted my head, turned to look at my profile. Alice
laughed pealingly.

I heard Edward sigh.

I was facing him as soon as I'd registered the sound, hairbrush frozen
at the nape of my neck. "What?" I asked.

"I'd been hoping, just a little, that after your mind became more
similar to my own, I'd be able to read it," he admitted. "Yet here I am,
mystified as ever."

I chuckled. "I don't think that's how it works. My power is supposed to
get *better*, not work *less*." I pursed my lips in thought. "I wonder
what I can do now. There's so much I want to try. *So* much."

"Such as?" Edward prompted, and I knew what he was hoping for. He wanted
me fed. He imagined that I was swallowing a hot poker with every passing
moment. I laughed again, sounding like music to myself, and gave him
half the answer he wanted.

"I want to go outside," I said. "Are there any humans nearby I might
accidentally run into?"

Edward listened for a moment -- I'd never have caught the pause if I
hadn't thought as fast as I did -- and then shook his head. "The place is
deserted within my range. You may wish to stick close to the house,
though."

"Let me try something," I said, and then I pranced upstairs, returned
Alice's hairbrush to her vanity, picked up the clothes I'd discarded,
pressed my shirt to my face, and inhaled gingerly.

The lingering scent of a human no longer human was probably the safest
exposure test possible.

Thinking deliberately about the flavor of the air, inhaling it so
directly -- it was the least pleasant thing I'd encountered since my last
heartbeat. My throat erupted in flames; a fluid that wasn't at all wet
(venom, I presumed) coated my tongue but did nothing to soothe the
thirst.

I would have tasted *delicious*. I tried to imagine what I must have
smelled like to *Edward*, and failed.

I was tempted to leap off the landing to get directly to the first floor
and plumbing, but wasn't sure how sturdy the house was; I went as
quickly down the steps as I dared. Between vague recollections from
humanity of the house's floorplan, and my superior sense of smell, I
located the bathroom -- it bore a faint hint of the fruits and flowers
and chemicals that dominated the aroma of shampoo and soap. I filled my
hands with water and drank it.

It was not quite absolutely tasteless, as Edward had said when he'd
first sipped a little. I could detect minerals in it. But it was close
enough: it tasted like water, without having any of the thirst-quenching
properties it had had when I'd been human. It didn't cool the heat in my
throat. It did rinse away the venom, though, which I liked: it felt more
sensible to feel thirsty when my mouth wasn't full of fluid. One swallow
of water got rid of the excess produced by my whiff of my shirt.

Edward had followed me up when I'd buried my nose in my sleeve, and then
to the sink. "What exactly are you trying?" he asked, when I'd taken a
second sip of water and turned off the tap.

"Controlling myself," I explained. "Better to do it now, when there's no
one edible to attack, right? The water's interesting," I said, waving at
the faucet. "*Everything* is interesting." I grinned at him, then
launched myself towards him to fling my arms around him in a hug. He
smelled marvelous. Felt the same temperature as me -- no longer icy.

"Um," he said, "Bella, *ow*."

I was momentarily confused, and then I put my hands behind my back.
"Sorry. Don't know my own strength," I laughed. I twirled around, my
dress flaring out around my knees with a soft whisper. "Oh, I love
everything, it's amazing. I love *you*," I added, and I hugged him
again, more gently. My turn to be careful.

"I love you," he murmured, sounding amused.

"I'm sorry I was so obviously miserable while I was turning," I said
solemnly, leaning my head on his shoulder again. "I'd say I didn't mean
to hurt you, but, uh, at one point I was actually trying to provoke you
into killing me. I'm sorry about that. I feel *awesome* now," I
promised. I didn't need to rest my head -- my neck would never tire, it
could hold my head and a few large rocks without any trouble for all
time -- but it was good to be close to him. Warm (warm!) and safe and
comfortable.

He stroked my hair once, then put his hands on my face, lifted my chin,
and kissed me. No further cause for caution. I could open my mouth, he
could pull me to him as tightly as he liked without doing me harm --

And we were standing in the middle of the hallway. Emmett snickered from
the stairwell. "Get a room!" he called.

I let an annoyed puff of air out through my teeth. "Do we," I asked
Edward pointedly, "have a room?"

Edward looked uncomfortable. Probably he wanted me to hunt before
anything else. "Esme converted an outbuilding into a cottage for us," he
said slowly. "I think you'll like it. It'll be more private than a room
here."

"Great! Let's go see it. I still want to go outside. Maybe eat a moose,"
I added, to placate Edward.

* * * * *

Edward led me by the hand out the door. I gasped at the landscape when I
saw it. I could pick out each leaf -- the *veins* on each leaf -- of every
tree within visual range, which was quite a lot. The colors were so
bright, so intense. The wind carried smells towards me -- plants, soil, a
touch of the ocean. I didn't catch anything by scent, sound, or sight
that I could identify as an animal. I remembered the dog that had hated
James, vaguely -- vampires had lived in this house for three days. All
the wildlife was probably long gone from the immediate vicinity.

But the plants couldn't move a bit. I dashed up to the nearest tree
trunk and stroked the bark, giggling at the weak roughness of it. It
didn't pose any threat to my skin. It felt a bit like it would have been
good to scratch an itch with, if I'd had any itches. I looked down at my
dress in annoyance. It wasn't a tree-climbing outfit. But there would be
time to race all over the three dimensions of the landscape later.

I twirled around to look at Edward again, grinning widely. "Okay, which
way?" I asked eagerly.

He pointed, still with that vague discomfort, and then suddenly wore a
playful smile. "Catch me, if you can." He took off.

Even to my recalibrated estimations, he was fast. But I had newborn
strength working for me. If I just pushed off from the ground as hard as
I could, perhaps I could make up for the fact that I likely wasn't as
quick as Edward. I dug my shoeless left foot into the ground and kicked
myself into the air.

My dress split up the sides all the way to mid-thigh: too snug to really
run in. "Ugh," I said, landing some thirty feet away and stopping there
rather than chase him. He wouldn't have gotten far enough away to miss
the sound of the tear or my annoyance. And indeed, he reappeared next to
me a second later.

"I need to change if I'm going to do *anything* interesting," I
muttered. "But all my clothes would still smell like me and I don't want
to be distracted while everything's still new. Do you think I could
borrow something of Esme's?" Her clothes would be only a little loose on
me -- perfect for active pursuits.

"I'm sure she won't mind," Edward said. "I'll wait."

I went back in, found Esme by the distinctive sound of her footsteps on
the top floor, and picked my way up the stairs without doing futher
damage to the dress. I asked her for jeans and a t-shirt, which she
provided; I ducked into a bathroom to swap outfits.

Esme's new study, where I'd found her, had a large window that could
unlatch. I eyed it speculatively for a moment, then opened it up and
dove out. With no difficulty, I righted myself in midair, landed on the
balls of my feet, and threw my head back and laughed. I felt omnipotent.
To make up for my earlier constraint, I promptly shimmied up a tree.
From this vantage point, I spotted Edward on the other side of the
house. He was watching me, one of those mixed-up expressions on his
face. I flipped myself off the treetop, spinning around three times in
midair and landing on one hand. Everything remained clear, not a touch
of blur, as I hurtled towards the ground. I understood at last how
vampires never hit trees or got branches in their faces as they ran
through closely spaced trees. I pushed off the ground with my hand and
landed on my feet again.

Looking at a landscape where everything is accessible was a different
experience from simply taking it in visually. If I liked the look of
something, I could *go* to it -- no matter what was in my way. If I
wanted to tunnel through the dirt and down through the bedrock, I could
do it. If I wanted to leap into the sea and swim across the Atlantic
Ocean, I could do it. If I wanted to travel by brachiating through trees
without ever touching the ground, I could do it. I laughed again,
exhilarated. Then a bar of sunlight struck my arm, and I looked at the
opalescent play of color, enthralled. Ultraviolet glints were among the
complement of hues. I decided that ultraviolet was my new favorite
color.

The ground around the house wasn't well-kept, yet, and it was full of
rocks and sticks and thorny weeds. They were meaningless unless I chose
to think about them. They couldn't hurt my feet. I jogged easily around
the house to meet Edward, and, wanting to share my utter joy, hugged him
again.

"That way, right?" I asked, after I thought I'd had enough hug to last a
minute or two. I pointed the same way he had, and then with a wink I
threw myself into the trees.

Edward was much faster than me. I could cover as much ground with one
stride as he could with one, as long as I pushed horizontally instead of
wasting momentum on airtime, but he could pump his legs blindingly fast
and take more than three times as many steps as I could. He caught up
with me, overtook me as though to simply prove he could, and then let me
catch up to him so we could run together. I laughed again. I couldn't
help it. I was going faster than I'd *ever* gone outside of an airplane
or a car: Edward couldn't go top speed while carrying me and wouldn't
have done it while I was human anyway. The scenery was full of rich
color, it smelled marvelous, and I could see it all with miraculous
clarity even as I raced past it as fast as I could. The wind pulled at
my hair and whistled past my ears.

In no time at all we'd come to a little wooden cottage nestled in the
trees, looking for all the world like it had been appropriated from an
illustrated fairy tale. My hands flew to my mouth as I gasped in
delight. It was the most adorable building I'd ever seen. Esme clearly
had picked up on my taste.

"You like it," said Edward, sounding pleased.

"I *love* it," I exclaimed, flying forward to go inside.

"Bella," called Edward.

I stopped short of the door and turned. "What? I want to look at our
*house*!" I almost squealed.

"Are you sure that's all you want to do?" he asked me in a patient
voice, and my throat blazed again. I gritted my teeth.

"It's not that bad when I'm not *thinking* about it," I said
plaintively. "I was all excited about the house and now I'm thirsty
again." I put my hands in my pockets and mentally poked at the sensation
of thirst, trying to make it fade into the background again.

"I'm sorry," he said regretfully. "But I *really* think you should eat
something, soon. I smell a wolf," he coaxed, invitingly. "Carnivores
taste better than herbivores."

I closed my eyes and inhaled, trying to find the scent he'd mentioned.
There were a thousand to sift through, but eventually I caught something
from the north that I thought might be a wolf. It smelled wet, and sort
of unappealingly hearty. It wasn't as delectable a bouquet as my old
clothes had. Not remotely. If humans smelled like succulent, perfectly
ripe fruit, the wolf was like unseasoned and undercooked barley that had
gone slightly off -- but still food. What would herbivores smell like, to
be less pleasant than that? Something with mold on it? I sighed heavily,
perked up my ears to aid my location of the animal, and took off into
the trees.

* * * * *

Hunting the wolf was messy. I chased it a few miles up, loping after it
slower than I had to be, too full of nerves to spring. Eventually I did
attack, and immediately I regretted borrowing clothes: they'd never be
fit to wear again. For all that the beast's claws and teeth did nothing
but make an unpleasant noise against my marble surface, they were still
quite capable of shredding ordinary denim and cotton. I was veering
close to indecent by the time I'd gotten enough blood out of the wolf --
some down my throat, some onto Esme's outfit -- that it stopped
struggling.

The wolf's blood was unappetizing. I thought back to the square of
chocolate I'd had before turning: I knew I'd liked chocolate, but even
the memory of it held no appeal anymore. Even tangy, unpleasantly musky
wolf blood was better than anything humans made a habit of eating, now.
And it *did* soothe the thirst, even when I was thinking about it. It
didn't completely eliminate it -- it would never go away entirely -- but
it was easier to push it into the unobtrusive corner of my mind, and
less raw and insistent when it crept out and bothered me.

"Happy?" I asked Edward, raising one eyebrow and turning to my
supervising boyfriend. "Delicious wolf, om nom nom -- can I go look at
our house?"

Edward's eyes lingered a little on the tears in the clothes. I smirked
and posed for him; he blinked rapidly and looked me in the eye. Just a
little disappointing. I was all sturdy and indestructible now; there was
no particular reason he had to fight the temptation presented by my
newfound gorgeousness.

"Are you sure you don't want something else? A moose? There are moose,"
he prodded.

"Why do you want me to eat so much so soon?" I asked. "Yeah, I'm
thirsty, but I'm going to stay that way for all eternity and might as
well get used to it, right? The entrée took the edge off. I can check
out the salad bar and the dessert cart tomorrow. Besides," I added
suggestively, "we have a *room* to which I believe we were told to
*get*."

Edward pursed his lips together. There was a silence; I waited
expectantly for his answer. "You're not acting at all like a newborn,"
he murmured.

"We knew I'd be extra-special," I pointed out. "Alice is pretty good at
noticing that kind of thing. I'd be filling up more enthusiastically if
there were anyone around I might hurt, but you said there wasn't. I
mean, let me know if someone wanders by, but it's still my first hour of
being a vampire! There's so much to do!" I waved my hands at the forest
around us. "Everything is *beautiful*! I can do anything I want and not
fall on my face! I can hear for miles around!"

"It's not just that you aren't as thirsty as you should be, or rather
that you don't want to eat as much as you should," Edward said, choosing
his words carefully. How often had he picked through his vocabulary like
this without my having noticed, the hesitations too brief to register to
human ears? "It's that you're too... rational. Even things other than
thirst usually can overwhelm newborns. Mood swings are -- *almost*
universal."

"Oh, I have been kind of moody," I said.

He stared at me incredulously. "No, you really haven't. You should have
heard what Jasper was thinking. He has more experience with newborns
than any of us -- he knows how you're supposed to work. But you've been
reining in errant emotions with the self-possession of a vampire decades
old, not minutes."

"I mean compared to how I was when I was human," I clarified. "I don't
have any newborns handy to measure myself against. It's like there's a
lot more room for emotions to expand, and if I let them get too big,
they're hard to put back where they belong -- I mostly managed at first
because I *really* don't want Jasper to mess with my head. But if I just
don't let them get bigger than they could have when I was human, then
they're much *easier* to deal with, because I have more resources to use
to handle them. Also, there's so much to distract me," I exulted, making
another expansive gesture. "If I fill up all the space in my head with
happiness and beauty that's hardly dangerous, is it?"

Edward listened to this speech with some amount of astonishment. "I can
read minds, and it took me years to get that kind of clarity about how
the vampire psyche works," he murmured.

"I can read *my* mind, even if you can't," I said, self-satisfied. "I
know what I want. Right now, moose is *not* at the top of the list. I
promise you'll be the second person to know if it makes it up there."

"What *is* at the top of your list?" he asked, spreading his hands in a
defeated sort of gesture.

"You," I sang, and a flash of discomfort crossed his face again. I was
confused. I had just drained a wolf. Evidently my earlier conjecture had
been wrong or incomplete. "What's wrong?" I asked. "I'm remodeled and
reinforced for our mutual convenience. I love you. You love me. We
have," I added, "a house. And I *saw* you peeking," I teased, waving at
the rips in Esme's poor destroyed shirt. I probably couldn't have walked
out in public without getting arrested, sunshine notwithstanding.

Edward mumbled something. I actually couldn't make out the words --
apparently vampires could mangle language so thoroughly that even other
vampires couldn't decipher it.

I propelled myself to his side in a flying leap and wrapped my arms
around his neck, pressing in close. "I didn't catch that," I purred,
finding that I could actually *purr*.

"We aren't *married*," he muttered, just barely clear enough for me to
comprehend.

Self-Control
============

I boggled at him.

"Well," he said uncomfortably, "I was born in 1901."

"Riiiight," I sighed. "And the fact that it's not 1901 anymore leaves
you unmoved?" I wriggled against him, just a little. He took a very deep
breath.

Edward laid his palms against my cheeks and kissed me -- carefully,
chastely, not at all like the passionate delight in the hallway. I tried
to follow his face with mine when he pulled back, but didn't fight
against the steady pressure of his hands, even though I could have
easily knocked them aside and tackled him. If he wanted to be married
first and I couldn't talk him out of it -- well, Alice was planning a
wedding anyway. I could be a *little* patient. Maybe. If I absolutely
had to.

I looked at his darkened gold eyes, which smoldered at me. A fresh bolt
of desire struck me, and I couldn't restrain a sad little whine. Oh,
this was going to be hard.

"Trust me," he said with a wry smile, "if the fact that you *exist*
leaves me unmoved -- well, it doesn't, but I suspect the difference isn't
relevant for your purposes -- then the date isn't going to do anything."

"I can't possibly convince you?" I pleaded.

He bit his lip, looking apprehensively at me. "I'd really rather you
didn't try," he said.

"Why's that?"

"Because I'm not sure if you can... but *if* you can... then that would
be contrary to my current preferences." His eyes were almost *quivering*
-- like he wanted to look down, but caught himself before doing it every
time. His wobbly gaze stayed locked on my own eyes.

My eyebrows knitted together. I was pretty sure I could resist the
impulse to knock him over and have my way with him. Could I avoid even
trying to *encourage* him?

"I've been waiting and *waiting* for *this* day, so it would be *safe*,"
I complained, "and you're *springing* this on me. You never said "oh, by
the way, Bella, unless we *actually* get married instead of just
pretend, you will be obliged to live like a nun". I am not pleased with
this surprise." I deliberately attended to the feel of the wind, the
smell of the forest, trying to distract myself from said displeasure --
it would be very embarrassing to throw an outright tantrum at so
inopportune a time.

He gritted his teeth. "I'm sorry. I truly am." He passed his thumb
gently over my cheekbone, which *did not help*.

I pouted, and then closed my eyes and gradually forced my face into a
more neutral, less coaxing expression. "Okay," I managed. "I'll do my
best. I'll... I'll learn a lot of languages and read all my computer
files and clear the area of moose and I will *try* very *hard* to
*wait*." My jaw clenched a little. I'd probably need to avoid spending
too much time even *near* Edward to obey his wishes. Maybe I'd fling
myself into wedding planning and oust Alice. She'd be irked, but it
wasn't *her* wedding.

Suddenly, Edward dropped to one knee before me and took both of my hands
in his, clasping them together. I stared down at him. "Edward?"

"I want to do it properly," he said in a low voice, and freeing one
hand, he reached into his pocket and pulled out a little black
satin-covered box.

* * * * *

"How long have you had that?" I gasped.

"Since my mother died. It was the one my father gave her," he murmured.

"How long have you been carrying it around in your *pocket*?" I
clarified.

"Since you said you loved me," he said, looking up at me with those
bronzed, darkening eyes. My lips parted slightly in shock. "I was
waiting for the right moment," he explained, a little sheepishly. "I'm
sorry it's this moment, instead of some candlelit setting where I
haven't just offended you by having failed to communicate... but I have
to ask, Bella," he said fervently. He didn't physically tremble with
anxiety, but I could hear it in the cadences of his voice, that perfect
voice...

He flicked the box open with his thumb. His mother's ring was a thing of
ensnaring beauty, and my eyes locked onto it, watching the light catch
fire in each tiny diamond latticed against the golden oval. The band was
thin, delicate, barely enough to support the net of gems.

"If you don't like it, I can get you something else," he told me. It
sounded like he found it very urgent that I like my ring, as though that
could be an important deciding factor.

"I like this one," I said at once, and he smiled in relief and plucked
it from the box.

"Isabella Swan," he whispered intensely, still gazing up at me, still
holding my hands in one of his. I was suddenly and acutely aware that I
was standing ten feet away from the corpse of an exsanguinated wolf,
wearing torn jeans and a barely decent t-shirt, and spattered all over
with blood. He didn't seem to care. "I love you. I will love you for
every moment of eternity. Will you do me the honor of marrying me?"

There was nothing else to say --

"Yes."

Edward slid the ring onto the correct finger, beaming up at me more
brilliantly than I'd ever seen. His smile was full of ecstatic victory.
When the ring was in place, fitting perfectly, he bent his head forward
and kissed it. And then he was on his feet instantly, arms around me,
pulling me towards him with force that would have destroyed a human but
that only felt secure and perfect and *right* to me. I hugged him back,
careful as I could stand to be with my newborn strength; if I squeezed
him too hard, he didn't complain.

He kissed me, and kissed me, and kissed me -- I heard a quiet purr in the
back of his throat. I resigned myself to the fact that this would be all
I'd get until my ring had a companion. But it was still wonderful --
still more than what I could have had unturned, when he'd had to
exercise so much caution. I drank in the kisses greedily. All of forever
wouldn't contain enough of them.

* * * * *

We moseyed back to the house -- the main house, not our little cottage.
He had expressed a desire to carry me across the threshhold in the
traditional manner, and I'd said, "Oh, well, as long as I'm waiting for
everything else, may as well wait to see the house *too*," and he'd
looked too thrilled for me to take it back.

When we got to the yard, Alice was waiting for us. I thought her grin
would split her face open. "*Bella!*" she cried. "Come inside and try on
your *dress!*"

Had someone delivered it? I sniffed the air -- there was a mouthwatering
scent that might have been the remnants of a brief visit from a human
during my first hunt. Convenient timing, that he or she was gone. I took
a fraction of a second to fight the urge to follow the lure, to hunt
down its owner. I hoped it wouldn't cling to my wedding dress -- that it
had been wrapped up in plastic or heavily starched or something, enough
that it would smell only like itself.

I'd spent a couple of hours, as a human, paging through bridal magazines
with Alice so she wouldn't veer completely into left field when trying
to select elements of the event. I'd pointed out elements of dresses I
liked and didn't. But I wasn't prepared for the sheer perfection that
was my own white gown.

Alice had it displayed in the front hall on a dressmaker's dummy. It had
to be custom made. There wasn't a thread out of place or a bead I didn't
approve of. Everything I would have wanted in a dress, if I'd decided to
spend a month designing one, was there. A triangle of crisscrossing
ribbons pointed down the low back. It had a wide strap over the right
shoulder and left the other bare; there were no sleeves. The drapey,
shimmery fabric gathered at a rosette at the left side of the waist.
Rows of round, crystalline beads, glinting in every color up to and
including my new favorite, bordered every carefully placed fold and
edge, and clusters of them, rose-shaped, spiraled out from the rosette
to a radius of a foot and a half. The skirt looked like it would be
ankle-length on me -- I had made it clear to Alice that I did not approve
of long dragging trains that would inevitably get dirty. It didn't have
bulky extra layers or come with a jacket: it was clearly a *summer*
wedding dress, for all that I could have crossed the Sahara in an anorak
without experiencing discomfort.

"Alice, it's gorgeous," I declared, and she smiled broadly at me. I
noticed that Edward hadn't followed me in, suspected superstition about
viewing the dress, and added in a louder voice that I meant to carry
outside, "Edward! Just how likely is it that you're going to avoid
seeing what it looks like in Alice's head until -- when will it be,
Alice?" I inquired.

"Next week," she reported, entirely chipper. "Wednesday. I thought at
first you'd ask Carlisle to perform the ceremony, but then you were
going to decide that it'd make it look to your parents less like you
suddenly eloped. So the official story is that you're bringing only me
to witness and getting a court official to handle it, although really of
course we're all going. To Ukraine, by the way, because we know your
parents know how old *you* are and it would be easy to look up minimum
age laws, but we can tell them Edward's just turned eighteen; his Forks
paperwork has an early June birthday on it if anyone looks. I rented a
plane so you don't have to be cooped up with humans."

"Who is it who flies?" I asked.

"Edward," Alice told me. "Emmett started, but he ate his instructor and
we had to run."

"Such charming family anecdotes we have," I said, grimacing. "Edward, I
really am very skeptical that you can avoid learning what this dress
looks like until Wednesday! I'll give you a hint! It's white!"

I heard a low grumble from beyond the front door.

"It's not the dress itself you are traditionally not supposed to look
at, anyway," I said reasonably, "it's me *in* the dress *on* the day of
the wedding. Come in, please?"

The door opened, and in meandered Edward, looking oddly long-suffering.
"You are the most persuasive creature on Earth," he murmured.

"I don't think anyone's told me that before," I said thoughtfully. I
sifted through misty recollections. "I need to read my notes; I don't
like having to think so hard to remember things that happened when I was
human. Alice, do I have to actually try on the dress? I'm sure if you
ordered it, it fits perfectly."

"Please put it on? For me?" pleaded Alice. She looked at me with huge
eyes.

"Are you sure this isn't the most persuasive creature on Earth?" I
bantered to Edward, pointing a thumb at his sister.

She laughed. "You'll try it on."

I tilted my head, wondering about the flimsiness of Alice's predictions,
and her face fell. "Oh. Maybe you won't." She looked so sad -- and then
suddenly she lit up again -- and then she looked annoyed at me. "Stop
changing your mind!" she demanded. "I can't use aspirin, you know!"

"Okay, okay," I said. "I'll try it." I picked up the display dummy by
the neck, carried it up the stairs, and headed for Alice's room again,
since it was her request and I'd agreed to stay out of my cottage until
Edward could carry me across the threshhold. He was full of silly
old-fashioned preferences like that -- but they added up to a certain
aesthetic about the whole thing that I could learn to like, I supposed.

It was part of Edward; he wasn't going to stop being from 1901 no matter
how much I rolled my eyes. If I pushed him into breaking or giving up a
superstition or a cultural more from his origins, he might bend, he'd
absolutely forgive me -- but I didn't *want* to abuse his willingness to
make me happy like that. It would be immature, it would be *wrong*, to
traipse about running on every whim and every desire except the desire
to make Edward happy simply because he'd settle for anything I threw his
way.

And so, I reflected, as I shut Alice's door behind me, I'd be patient.

As patient as a newborn vampire could be.

* * * * *

Even a vampire has a little trouble reaching a zipper right in the
middle of her back. But eventually I got dressed without making up my
mind to request Alice's help, and so she didn't appear. I turned around
in front of the full length mirror that Alice had set up in her room
since I'd last visited it. The dress fit perfectly, and I liked the look
of me in it, although I could have easily tolerated waiting a few days
to admire myself if it hadn't been for Alice. I liked the look of
practically everything. Colors were more vivid, textures were not only
tangible but *visible*, sounds from miles away could catch my ear with
distinct edges and timbres, everything bore its own smell --

The clothes I'd changed from when I'd put on the ruined blue silk were
still in Alice's room, and unlike Esme's clothes, they weren't ripped.
(Such a track record I had with garments already. It was lucky that
Alice would consider it an immense personal favor to her if I asked her
to pick me up a few things.) However, they still bore my old human
scent. I put the wedding dress back on its mannequin and picked them up.

Bella-the-human smelled unbearably appetizing. My thirst flared to life
as I moved the outfit through the air, wafting it towards my nose. All
my control over myself was poised to snap; it held only because the
desire had no direction. There was no Bella-the-human present to spring
at, to tear open, to desiccate of life.

I had smelled only *traces* of humans. My own clothes and the
dissipating presence of whoever had delivered my dress. In neither case
had there been an enticing heartbeat, a telltale sound of needful
breath, or anywhere near the intensity of fragrance a live, present
human would put out. I wasn't sure what I would do if I met one -- what I
*could* do.

I didn't think I could get all the way to Ukraine without meeting one.
If nothing else, Alice had implied that the service would be conducted
by a human. I didn't think the Cullens had any vampire friends there
with the authority to officiate weddings that they'd just conveniently
neglected to mention.

I could hear Alice relating the story now, to some inquisitive future
addition to the family: "Oh, we're all married. Except Edward and Bella.
She ate the justice of the peace, and we had to run."

I closed my eyes and clenched my teeth. I brought my shirt up to my
face. I took a deep breath.

*What do I want?*

Blood. That wasn't even difficult to acknowledge. I'd known to expect
it, and it manifested itself with a desperate intensity that overrode
any discomfort with the notion.

But not *just* blood. I wanted other things. I wanted to make it through
my wedding without slaughtering any defenseless Ukrainians. I wanted to
avoid attracting the Volturi with conspicuous mistakes. I wanted things
unrelated to blood -- to be with Edward, to see the world, to learn
things, to find a way to activate wolves and turn vampires as a
life-preservation measure on a large scale without getting anyone killed
or pissed off.

I didn't *want to want* blood.

The problem was balance. My obedient, responsive vampire body didn't
care all that much what I wanted to want. That wasn't the sort of
impulse that called for my arm to extend or my foot to twist; no
physical act would manage it. My muscles would seize what I *wanted
seized*, even if I hated the fact that I wanted it -- unless I could
contradict that first want with another, stronger, object-level
preference.

I breathed again. So luscious -- and worse for Edward, far worse -- and
he'd resisted, hadn't swallowed the succulent blood from my dying body
even given every opportunity. What had *he* wanted, more than that
taste? More than the relief from that aching burn in his throat, fueled
with every breath he took while I was near?

That I be alive, and happy, and not still and empty on the ground, of
course. Once he knew me, once he loved me. But not at first. What had
held him back when first we'd crossed paths? Why, after sitting through
the most agonizing biology class of his life, had Edward not offered to
escort me to my next class, led me astray, taken me out to the woods,
and drained every drop?

Perhaps I ought to inquire.

I put on my tantalizing clothes, infused with insistently ambrosial
Essence of Bella, and went to locate my fiancé.

* * * * *

Edward was still in the front hall; I could hear him talking to Alice
before I'd gone down enough stairs to see either of them. He was
confirming some detail about his own wedding outfit, using unfamiliar
words that must have been technical tuxedo-related terms.

They heard my footsteps, although I walked very softly. "Bella!"
exclaimed Alice, once my toes touched the first floor. "Do you like your
dress?"

"It's perfect, Alice," I assured her. "Is there anything else I need to
do in that vein?"

She shook her head. "Everything's all set. There's not going to be cake
and only a few flowers that I can get last-minute from a place in
Ukraine. It can't look for the pictures like you planned this ahead of
time, and we can't eat a cake."

"You mentioned a cake, earlier," I recalled, with some difficulty. "When
you first asked to plan things..."

"It was possible then that you'd have gotten married, or taken pictures
to make it look like you did, while still human, and *you* could have
eaten a cake," Alice explained. "Now you can't. Well, you could swallow
pieces of cake, but you wouldn't like it. So we're skipping that." She
sighed. "It would have been fun to go shopping for a cake, though..."

"Actually, speaking of shopping," I said. "My clothes all still smell
like... me. I can live with that... but I'd rather not have to do it
twenty-four hours a day. And it looks like I'm going to be destroying
them pretty fast, so I'd feel bad about borrowing more from Esme. I was
wondering if you'd mind going into town and getting me some things."

Alice was already nodding by the time I was halfway through the third
sentence. Her grin was entirely too manic. I continued: "Normal clothes.
That blue dress *was* pretty, but if I'm going to destroy things I'd
rather destroy jeans and stuff, you know?" She pouted at me, and I
rolled my eyes. "Why do you like putting me into such fancy clothes,
anyway? You don't go around in evening gowns all the time yourself."

"I mostly just like buying them," she admitted sheepishly.

"Start a charity where you donate prom dresses to deserving high
schoolers, or something," I proposed. "But I want pants and shirts and
whatnot -- you know what I wear." She was still pouting. "They can be
*nice* pants and shirts and whatnot," I conceded, laughing a little, "if
you *really* want. But I don't expect to attend a cocktail party any
time soon."

"Okay, fiiiine," she grumbled, but there was a glint in her eye. "I'll
be back in a few hours." And with that she was out the door.

I turned to Edward.

"Let's go look at the fjords," I said. He nodded in assent, and we ran
to the shore.

* * * * *

Fjords were more beautiful when they weren't stark, inaccessible
features of the landscape.

I was outrageously distractable, really. Having intended only to go to a
private location to ask Edward potentially awkward questions, the first
thing I did when confronted with a sheer cliff as a vampire was to
swan-dive off of it, whooping with laughter all the way down.

I landed in the water, where I quit breathing. Inhaling water wouldn't
do me harm, but it would mean I'd have to cough it up before I could
breathe air normally again. I was less buoyant than I remembered being
as a human; however, it was easy to stay at the surface of the water as
I preferred just by kicking. I stroked easily over to the cliff and
climbed up it, grabbing every handhold surely and scooping out my own
when I felt like it. The rock came away easily when I clawed at it. It
felt a little like packed brown sugar -- stiff, but readily yielding to
pressure from my hands.

I reached the top in about six seconds. Edward was smiling indulgently
at me. I swung myself up over the side and, soaking wet, lay down on the
cliff edge in the sunshine to dry off. I looked up at him. "Oh, right,"
I said. "I wanted to ask you something."

"What's that?" he asked, sitting down beside me and picking up my right
hand.

"How did you avoid killing me, the first day we met?" I asked.

Edward's hands tightened around mine, and he didn't seem to like the
question much. "Why do you want to talk about that?"

"I have to know how to handle being around humans. You're the only one
who's encountered a singer without killing -- and that's having tasted
human blood before -- so your control is probably what I should be trying
to emulate. I'll talk to Rosalie, too, since she was a newborn when she
killed those people without eating any, so that's something. And
Carlisle. But I wanted to start with you."

He nodded slowly, appreciating the sense of the request, and closed his
eyes. "I didn't get a whiff until you walked in front of the vent in the
classroom," he remembered. "For the first half second or so I was
just... reeling. It was like nothing else. And then you looked at me.
That saved you -- that I suddenly had to remember that you were a person
-- and I could see my face reflected in your eyes. I looked like a
monster. A monster I didn't want to be, that I was anyway."

Edward paused, reflecting. "You mentioned that in a vampire mind, there
is room for emotions to expand, but that as long as you catch them
before they do, they aren't very hard to deal with. When I first
realized what you smelled like, my thoughts were too full of murder too
quickly for me to control them, or do the sane thing and hold my breath.
The only reason I didn't attack you instantly was because I was trying
to come up with a way to do it without extending the collateral damage
outside the students and the teacher in the one classroom. I was trying
to choose a route to go by while I killed them all that wouldn't let
anyone see me coming with enough time to scream. The need to destroy
evidence is deeply ingrained -- I'd been following that rule for long
enough, consistently enough, that it managed to stick. The more people I
killed, the harder that would be to do.

"Someone closed a folder, on the opposite side of me, and I got one
breath of air that wasn't full of your scent," he continued. He seemed
to be shedding some of his discomfort with the story as I looked up at
him, undisturbed, undamaged. "It gave me a second in which I could think
clearly. I didn't want to disappoint Carlisle, to kill a room full of
children, to destroy everything my family stood for, to undo a
lifetime's worth of denial just because a stranger with horribly
desirable blood had wandered into an unlikely town. I stopped breathing.
It was the scent that was the problem -- I could remember it, and
perfectly, but I didn't have to add to the temptation."

I asked, "Was that all? Getting ahold of yourself for a moment so you
could hold your breath?"

He shook his head. "I fought my way through that hour by focusing on
everything but imagining how you'd taste. I -- This part is hard to talk
about."

"Tell me," I insisted.

"I hated you," he admitted, sounding like he was confessing sins to a
priest. "I can barely imagine, now, but I did -- if I hated you, it was
at least something to think about that didn't bring me closer to killing
you. I imagine Rosalie will tell you something different. But she only
killed, didn't drink, and hatred helped her draw that line. I didn't
want you dead, exactly. I only hated what you caused in me. I thought I
hated you, but really, what I hated was myself."

I nodded, accepting -- I knew he loved me in this moment; if he'd hated
me for something I hadn't even *done* before we'd spoken a word, it
didn't hurt me very much.

"I was impatient for the hour to end," Edward continued. "At this point
I was imagining I'd get you by yourself, at least not kill so *many* --
but Mike Newton was aware of you, he would have paid attention if I'd
led you off somewhere. So I made up my mind to wait two hours, cut my
last class -- hid in my car. I was planning to go to your house after
school; I knew your father wouldn't be home until later."

Right, I had a father -- I really should get to the computer soon, send
him and Renée e-mails, maybe tell Gianna my news...

"When you weren't right there, and I could breathe air that didn't smell
like you," Edward continued, "I was saner, I could think more clearly. I
thought perhaps I could just avoid you without fleeing, that I shouldn't
have to rearrange my life, or disappoint Carlisle and hurt Esme. I'm
still not sure if it was lucky or unlucky that Alice saw nothing. She
was focused very carefully on Jasper that day, on his short term
choices. He'd had a hard moment at lunch. And so when I'd been certain
I'd kill you, she didn't see the aftermath.

"I tried to change out of the biology class," he went on. Even telling
this story, about how he'd almost excised himself from my life and cut
off the universe of wonder I now inhabited, his voice was beautiful. "It
turned out not to be possible -- and then you walked in. That office is
very small, kept very warm -- I couldn't not smell you, if I inhaled. I
used the last of my air to excuse myself and bolted. The others were
already in the car; once I had Alice's attention she saw one of two
futures. You dead, or me, driving north, alone.

"I went north. Close to where the Denali family lives. I didn't actually
visit them, although Tanya found me and we talked very briefly before I
went back to Forks."

"Why did you go back?" I asked.

He was silent for a few seconds. Then, slowly, he said, "We have perfect
recall -- not eidetic memories. We can call up what we noticed in the
past, flawlessly -- things that pass without notice are lost."

"Why do you *think* you went back?"

He considered, no doubt sifting through all the thoughts he'd noted at
the time. "I think I wanted to prove myself to my family," he murmured,
"and to be the kind of person who wouldn't need to run."

I interlaced my fingers with his. "If that's what you wanted, nice
work," I said, gently. He still looked like the topic wasn't one he
preferred, but his example was valuable, and if I didn't learn to handle
myself, lives were in danger. Maybe not next week. If I had to, I could
ask a Cullen to call in some old favor from a Denali, ask them to fly in
and perform my ceremony far away from any humans. Posing, for
photographic purposes, without Charlie prone to recognizing the face on
the "minister". But eventually, I'd have to be near humans, have to
*not* sink my teeth into their throats.

"Mm," he said, noncommittally. "Anyway -- when I went to biology after
coming back, and you'd changed seats, and when I heard the thoughts of
the people you'd told about how I looked at you -- I panicked. I could
barely form sentences to ask the teacher about it. I think I attributed
it to curiosity at the time, although I know better now. I had wanted to
talk to you. It drove me up the wall that I couldn't hear what you were
thinking, that I had to guess.

"I think I loved you already, then. I couldn't stand the idea that I
might have mishandled things badly enough that *you* would hate me. That
*you* would take steps to avoid me. Disappointing Carlisle and Esme
would be terrible, but they would forgive me, I knew that -- you, I had
no idea. You could have disappeared entirely and never thought about me
again and I couldn't bear the possibility when it confronted me like it
did. I was rationalizing my reaction to that. I imagined you to be a
suitable proxy for the average newcomer to Forks, that if you found me
off-putting I wasn't doing my acting work properly. But if you'd been
anyone else, some other singer, I think I'd have welcomed the avoidance.

"Alice realized you were significant in more ways than the scent of your
blood, that afternoon. I think you might have seen us arguing in the
parking lot after school. She knew you'd be her friend, her sister -- she
loved you already. She was certain that there was no way I'd be able to
stay away from you. If you left somewhere, I'd follow. If I tried to
leave myself, I'd always return. And of course she knew I loved you --
that was interesting, hearing it from Alice before I was aware of it
myself. But she also knew that even if I couldn't stay away, I could be
rejected. The word she used to describe you was "prickly"."

"*Prickly?*" I giggled.

"That's what she said. That there were thousands of futures where I
ruined everything with some small mistake -- a lie, an interruption, a
secret just a little too tantalizing, an advance just a moment too soon.
She said there was just barely a chance that you would tolerate me." He
related this with a faint humor. "If I toed the lines she laid out. I
tried, very hard. I don't think I got it exactly right, but I guess I
was within tolerances." He lifted my hand to his lips and kissed my
ring. "Albeit at one time Alice's visions went so wild that I begged her
to intercede with you on my behalf."

I remembered that, in broad strokes; I couldn't call any specifics to
mind. "And the rest is history," I said, knowing there would be notes in
my computer.

"More or less," he acknowledged.

* * * * *

We talked for a few more hours, and then I decided it was time to try
moose. Edward hunted with me, this time, and he had much better table
manners: not a spot of blood anywhere on him. He'd even managed to keep
it off his face, or maybe he'd used a swatch of fur as a napkin or
something. I was just as spattered, and my clothes nearly as torn, as I
had been with the wolf. I looked down at myself in exasperation.

"How do you do it?" I asked. I felt a little sloshy with blood; moose
were very big. I'd drained mine, but I most definitely didn't want
seconds.

"Practice," he said. "You'll get better at it over time. There's no
special trick to it."

I sighed. "I'm going to go through so many clothes. Maybe I should start
carrying peroxide with me when I hunt, so it won't stain..."

"Alice is completely thrilled to serve as your personal shopper while
you can't go into town," Edward promised me. "Even when you tell her to
stay away from the satin and organza and lace. And you aren't going to
hurt our finances by being a messy eater. Don't give it a second
thought."

"All right, I'll just try to avoid wearing anything I'm particularly
attached to, then," I said. "It's lucky that Alice's taste is a bit
off-center from mine. Unless she's really agonizing over every item and
checking up on my reactions, I probably won't fall in love with her
entire shopping trip."

"Esme knows your aesthetics better, I suppose," said Edward. "Judging by
your reaction to the house."

I nodded. "You've got a pretty good sense of my musical tastes, though,"
I said. "I want to hear music, like this..." I waved at my ear. And then
I stomped on the ground. "I keep letting time escape without reading my
files! I keep being annoyed that I can't remember things, or that
they're too difficult or dim or blurry, and I have a *solution*, and I
keep being *distracted*, and what good are twenty-four hour days if I
can be distracted for half of them by how pretty *colors* are?"

"Well, then, perhaps that should be next," Edward said reasonably.

"I have to get clean, I'm covered in blood and moose spit and moose
hair," I growled. "Why do we not just open a butchering facility? Those
usually slit the animals' throats anyway and drain the blood, don't
they? No one would care what happened to the blood afterwards. We could
just drink it."

"We've considered it," Edward said, and he put his arm around my waist
as we started walking back to the house. "It could be done, but one of
us would have to be on site to retrieve the blood without arousing
suspicion by asking a human employee for it. That means staying in one
place as long as we want to use the facility, or at least within a close
radius. Since we like to live fairly close to humans most of the time,
that's untenable."

That seemed like a solvable problem, if I thought about it -- but no, I
had other things to do, and all the time in the world was suddenly
looking like *not enough*. "Ah," I said, setting the problem aside for
later, if the annoyance of hunting ever grew to the point where it was
the best thing I could be doing.

* * * * *

Back at the house, I showered, changed into one of the serviceable
outfits Alice had brought home for me, and then I unpacked my computer.
Someone, probably Esme (responsible for whipping the house into shape)
or Jasper (resident electronics guy) had already set up Internet.

I composed e-mails. One to Renée, apologizing for my incommunicativity:
"I've been the sickest I've ever been," I said, not entirely
untruthfully. "But Norway is amazing. I absolutely love it here. We're
going to Ukraine next." *Foreshadowing*, I thought, and I chuckled
softly to myself. Charlie got an almost identical message.

Gianna was the other person I wanted to contact. And she got more
information. Maybe, with me a vampire, she'd think I was an appropriate
audience for more details. I told her I'd turned, that it had sucked but
afterwards everything was awesome, that I was going to get married on
Wednesday.

Then I read my entire folder full of compiled notes and diary entries.
This took me about five hours; I could read nearly as fast as the
computer could page through the document for me. Once I'd read through
it all, I effortfully forced myself to retrieve as much as I could
directly from memory to attach to each line from the documents. That
took twelve hours. When I had finished all of this, my parents had both
e-mailed me back with requests for pictures of fjords, and Alice had
e-mailed me pictures of fjords. I attached the pictures to my replies to
Renée and Charlie, yelled a thank-you to Alice, and then shut my laptop.

I found Rosalie lounging on a towel. On the roof. She was sunning
herself; she couldn't hope to tan, but she could reflect tiny rainbows
and set up a mirror to look at herself. I wandered around the house,
wondering if she'd used a ladder or if there was a trellis or something,
but found no convenient way to climb up. I might actually have been able
to make the jump, but would probably have reflexively caught the roof's
edge if I'd just barely missed a neat landing. So instead I climbed a
tree and sprang from that vantage point towards my sister-in-law-to-be.

"Hi, Bella," said Rosalie, glancing at me as I landed on all fours
beside her. Her face was neutral, so I didn't know if she still felt bad
about having considered killing me, but I decided to bring it up anyway
just in case.

"I wanted to let you know that I don't blame you for what happened while
I was turning," I said, arranging myself into a sitting position and
hugging my knees. "Please don't feel bad about it, whatever Edward says.
I *did* ask."

Rosalie regarded me evenly. "I don't think he told you all of it," she
said, finally. "But I'm not going to, either."

Well... that was frustrating. But I did have other things to talk about
with Rosalie, and did not want to spend the next thirty minutes running
around and kicking things, so I told myself that Rosalie probably had a
good reason to want to keep this to herself, whatever it was; that if I
ever decided it mattered very much, Edward thought I was the most
persuasive creature on Earth and knew all about it; and that regardless
of the detail I'd missed, I was now alive and a vampire and in fine
fettle.

Once I'd managed to get that emotion under control, I said, "There was
something else I wanted to talk to you about, too." And I explained my
project to learn from the best about how to prevent myself from eating
anyone.

Rosalie's reply was more or less what I'd expected. She had hated the
men she'd killed -- well, not the guards, but they were protecting the
one she'd hated most of all. She had not wanted to accept their blood as
fuel. Rage and contempt and loathing had overwhelmed her thirst.

"What about the people you'd have passed on the way to them?" I asked.
"They lived in Rochester, it's not a tiny rural community."

"I was very single-minded," she told me. "I didn't focus on little
sensations and tasks like you've been doing -- I only wanted to do one
thing. The other humans *were* tempting, but the death I wanted to deal
for its own sake was *urgent*."

Interesting. That was useful. If there was just something that I
couldn't bear to *interrupt*, maybe I could ignore humans whose
consumption would distract me from completing it.

That seemed to be all the wisdom she had to impart. I thanked her, and
tumbled gracefully off the roof, spinning three times and landing on my
feet without a stumble.

* * * * *

Carlisle was in his study, reading. His door was open, so I went right
in, and he put down his book. "Hello, Bella. What is it?" he asked,
looking at me in a very paternal manner.

I couldn't think how to feel about that. I *had* a father... on another
continent who I hadn't grown up with and who I wouldn't be able to see
in person for months, if not years, if *ever*. I supposed I could start
thinking of Carlisle as my father-in-law, just a little in advance.

Come to think of it, hadn't Rosalie had living family when she'd been
turned? Had she simply cut them off? What about Emmett? Edward's parents
had died in the same plague that had nearly killed him -- but Esme's?
Carlisle's relatives were surely long dead by 2005, and given the origin
story I already knew for him, I didn't think they'd have received him
well after he was a vampire. I didn't know about Jasper. Alice still had
plans in the works, yet untouched, to dig up her origins from the
information I'd funneled her from James, but she wouldn't remember any
kin she found.

But Carlisle was looking at me expectantly, and I filed away those
questions for later. "I'm trying to pick up tips on how to not eat
anybody," I told him.

Carlisle's story began with self-revulsion and a series of suicide
attempts, which he described in low, calm tones entirely unsuitable for
tales of jumping from heights, trying to drown, and even seeking death
by starvation. That last was what had led to the epiphany: he'd gotten
thirsty enough that a passing herd of deer had compelled his feeding,
and he'd found that they could sustain his life. Finding this
preferable, he'd exercised sheer strength of will to gradually develop
what amounted to an immunity to the temptation of human blood.

I stared at him. That was no help at all. I *loved* being a vampire. I
couldn't look at my moonlit skin with disgust, I wasn't repulsed by my
speed and power and beauty. A solution to the bloodlust that relied on
self-directed speciesism was not the one for me.

I thanked Carlisle anyway, and made my exit.

* * * * *

On Monday, it was decided -- Jasper the lone holdout against unanimity --
that it was a good idea to test my ability to hold up around actual
humans in a lower stakes situation. Demonstrating my lack of control, if
it was going to be a problem, was better handled under friendly
circumstances and not in a courthouse somewhere in Ukraine.

Various ways of getting a test human to the house without arousing any
suspicion were considered: requesting missionaries, ordering pizza,
hiring a repairman for the master bathroom's sink. (It really *didn't*
work, although Esme was capable of fixing it and had it on her list of
improvements.) Eventually it was decided that none of these were
sufficiently anonymous if things did... go wrong. The address of the
last known destination of the deceased, should I eat our visitor, would
be on record.

Until Jasper mentioned it, no one considered the possibility that I'd
lunge for the human and be restrained successfully. I was stronger than
any of the others, even Emmett, in my newborn year. While it was
feasible to restrain newborns anyway, the techniques known all involved
things like ripping their arms off. (Jasper's mood alteration could
help, and I authorized him to use it if I looked dangerously lunge-y,
but it was not powerful enough to even slow me down if I got going.) I
was all for whatever newborn-wrangling tricks were available as an
alternative to murder, especially since detached vampire limbs could be
put back. But Edward snarled when Jasper made the suggestion. I couldn't
calm him down until all of the others promised that I was not to be
dismembered.

"Edward, do you think I am going to try to eat my experimental subject?"
I asked testily.

"No, of course not, love," he said soothingly, switching instantly into
reassurance. He patted my hand.

"Okay, so if I'm not going to try to eat him or her, then it doesn't
matter what would happen if I did try, right?" I said reasonably. I
wasn't so confident in myself, and wanted the precautions so that I
could be stopped in the worst case. But if he was convinced I was
perfectly self-controlled, then I could reason the same result out of
him.

Edward scowled at Jasper, who must have been thinking some unapproved
thought. "Bella, I have to listen to them thinking it, if they're
planning to do any of those things," he said. "I have to *see* it -"

I remembered his roar at Rosalie. "So get out of range, don't watch," I
said. "I don't want to kill anyone. If I have to spend four seconds
without one or both arms to not kill anyone, then that is *better than
killing someone*. If you can't stand being aware of that happening to
me, then don't. But it is too important that I leave our visitor alive."

Edward hated the idea, but with the situation presented this way, he
reluctantly acknowledged that, in fact, it *was* a poor choice to
increase the risk of my killing my first sapient snack. He didn't
protest further while Jasper told the others how to incapacitate me if I
went for the human's throat.

The discussion returned to the provenance of the guinea pig. Eventually,
we agreed that Alice should run out to a highway and pretend to need a
ride home. She invented an elaborate little story about how her car had
been stolen, full of narrative filigree and affected sad faces, which
would probably convince anyone who stopped for her in the first place.
Alice was the right choice for the job because she could see who was
coming and reject cars with more than one occupant, keeping the scale as
minimal as possible. She was also small and cute and could look helpless
more readily than most of us.

A small part of me was screaming that this wasn't right, that if I
*needed* to do a test than I oughtn't do a test, that I couldn't risk
some stranger's life just so I could have my wedding a particular way
and participate in society a little sooner, that it could wait --

It could wait, that was certain. I could continue to live in the middle
of nowhere in Norway for a decade without ever seeing a human, if I
liked. I could ask a Denali vampire to fly in and perform the ceremony.
For that matter, I was pretty sure I could wear Edward down if I had to.

But in order for me to ever safely walk into a human society -- if I
wanted to go to college, or buy my own clothes, or have a proper tour of
Europe instead of just the uninhabited parts --

Then I needed to do something like what I was doing. I couldn't just
drive into Oslo and get out of the car and *then* discover, oops, I'm
going to massacre that traffic jam full of tinned treats. Meeting one
human in an isolated location, surrounded by more controlled vampires
who would keep me in check if need be, was the safest way to test my
limits.

The timing was still not forced. It didn't have to be this day. But
Alice was as certain as she ever was of anything that I would be okay,
and that decided me. Alice was never perfectly reliable, but at her
surest, she *was* more likely to be right than guesses based on how long
I'd been a vampire. She'd thought Emmett was all right, going to the
last flying lesson his instructor ever taught, and he'd been past the
newborn stage. If she thought I was all right now, then doing the test
now wasn't significantly less safe than doing it in 2015. Since there
were small reasons of convenience and preference that made me want to
join the world sooner rather than later...

I closed my eyes and focused my thoughts on my strategies.

* * * * *

Edward's: hate the monster that feeding would make me, refuse to be that
creature. Focus on everything but contemplating the taste. I had
voluntarily cut culinary pleasures out of my life in exchange for the
benefits of vampirism, and must not dwell on the loss. Must hold my
breath. (Although I should take one small breath, when I thought I had
hold of myself -- I didn't know if I could get through all the vows in
one lungful of air.)

Rosalie's: Urgently, intensely want something that wasn't compatible
with drinking the human's blood. I was good at that sort of thing. What
did I want...

I wanted to see my mother again. I knew it was only an outside chance
that I'd be able to do it under the best circumstances -- she'd know at
once that I'd changed, when she saw me, and that wasn't safe for either
of us -- but if it ever became possible, I wanted to be able to go to
her. If I ever ate anyone, even less than a week after turning, I'd
never trust myself around any humans I cared about. Same with my father.
If there was any possibility that they could be part of my life,
properly, then I wanted to preserve that chance.

I wasn't too keen on the possibility of having my arms ripped off. I'd
like to avoid that.

I wanted whatever hapless person Alice brought home to return to his or
her family tonight, with no idea that they'd been in danger. I focused
on imaginary characteristics of the person, knowing they were fictitious
but finding them helpful anchors. Maybe she'd bring a mother of four, on
her way home from buying the vanilla she needed to make her eldest a
birthday cake. That vanilla needed to go in that cake and if I ate the
poor lady, it never would. In fact, even if I didn't eat her, and she
just saw something incriminating, she might not be safe -- although if
she didn't tell anyone, maybe it would be okay. But I shouldn't think
that, shouldn't give myself leeway like that: she must not even *see*
anything remarkable about my behavior.

I wanted a perfect record. Jasper had a hard time even with intact
humans -- everyone except Carlisle was iffy around exposed blood. If I
failed this time, then it would be harder every occasion in the future.
Getting it right every time was really the *easiest* thing to do, no
matter how hard it seemed once there was a living breathing human
standing in front of me.

I wanted control of myself. I wanted to, without Jasper's emotional help
or physical restraint, to behave in the fashion I *chose* to behave. I
wanted freedom from my instincts except when I endorsed their
directives.

Was that enough? I cast about for other things to add, anything that
could bolster my resolve.

I didn't want to disappoint my family.

I'd started, tentatively, to think of them that way -- my parents-in-law,
my sisters, my brothers. My fiancé. I knew how they managed Jasper, I
knew that they loved him in spite of his need to take such care. But I
didn't want Edward to look at me the way Alice looked at Jasper when
they were among humans. I wanted to be able to race around the world
without needing to be babysat or worried about, without avoiding
population centers.

I sucked in a breath and conjured a vivid mental image of the Cullens --
*my family* -- huddled around me, talking over each other in their
eagerness to congratulate me for controlling myself so young, all of
them full of pride and excitement. The smug grin Alice would wear, the
vicarious fraternal joy in Emmett's laugh. Esme's warmly expressed
delight, twin to Carlisle's quiet approval. Rosalie's wordless, wry
acknowledgement and Jasper's envy. Edward's radiant admiration.

I wanted *that*.

"Alice is on her way," whispered Edward.

Esme fetched me a pair of brown contact lenses. "It's not quite your own
brown, but they won't know that," she assured me quietly. "The contacts
won't hurt but they will be annoying -- there are imperfections in the
lens and you'll be able to see them. They'll dissolve after a few hours
but will last long enough." I popped the little hemispheres into my
eyes, interested to discover that I no longer had any impulse to flinch
away from objects approaching them. Little flaws in the contacts drew my
vision and my eyes refocused disorientingly; I blinked. I could see past
them well enough to function, although I wouldn't want to try anything
fancy with them in. Esme also handed me a water bottle.

Everyone tensed up, waiting for the human, ready to take me apart if I
made a wrong move.

I held my breath.

* * * * *

Alice was saying something in Norwegian, outside the house. I hadn't
started learning the language yet except a few phrasebook entries,
having been too distracted by everything. I presumed she was trying to
invite the person who'd picked her up in for a beverage or some
similarly plausible. A voice -- a man's, thin and lively, tried several
times to demur, but she insisted.

The door swung open and she pulled him inside.

I looked at the human, blinking a few times in a reflexive attempt to
rid my eyes of their obstructions. I could hear his heartbeat, his
breath. The sounds signalled "food" -- but weren't that unlike the pulse
or panting of a non-human animal. The speed was a little different, but
those things varied between species anyway. Without the smell, it was
like he was something in Tupperware in the fridge -- clearly edible just
based on the package he came in, but not demanding that I pounce on him.

*He's a person,* I reminded myself. Before I took a breath, I used a
little of my air, to ask Edward at a pitch the visitor wouldn't hear,
too fast for him to see my lips move: "What's his name?"

"Nils," Edward replied, similarly unobtrusively. Okay. The
not-to-be-eaten man had a name. Hopefully that would make it easier.
Alice showed Nils into the kitchen, poured him a glass of water and one
for herself. They made awkward small talk in Norwegian. He looked
curiously at us, Alice's strangely still and silent relatives; Emmett,
the clown, waved at him.

I made full use of my immensely parallel brain to fix in my mind his
name, my competing desires, and everything else I could use to hedge out
the thought of drinking Nils's blood.

I sucked in a tiny wisp of air.

It was like inhaling flames. My throat erupted in heat and thirst. Venom
filled my mouth, coated my tongue, demanded to be used for its
incapacitating purpose against my natural prey. It hurt, I could have
swallowed a hot poker and felt no worse, and the relief was *right*
there, pulsing through the human's arteries -- *Nils,* I forced myself to
think, *he has a name, he probably has a loving family,*I don't want*to
eat him, I*don't want*it -*

I brought my water to my lips too fast, heedless of the need to act
human while near one. Holding my lungs still, I washed the venom away.
It replaced itself, but more slowly, and I took another gulp to clear
it. My throat wasn't cooled at all. It still felt flayed and charred and
in need of the balm that I could only get from one source.

*I want to get married on Wednesday in Ukraine,* I screamed at myself
desperately. *I want to see Renée and Charlie. I want Nils to go home to
his loved ones. I want to be in control, I want to be perfect at this, I
want my family to be proud of me. I want that more than this, more than
this, more than this, I can't have them both, I don't want the blood*
enough --

I let another tiny gasp pass my gritted teeth.

Like swallowing molten iron. The desire for soothing blood flooded my
senses; I didn't quite experience tunnel vision, but everything except
the experience of my parched throat was irrelevant, passed without
notice -- not significant enough to be embedded in my perfect recall. I
had my thoughts and my thirst. That was all.

*I do not want to eat him -*

*Oh*, insinuated the charming little voice of vampire instinct, *but
everything is set up to make it safe for you to have a sip. No harm will
come to you if you just taste, it will taste so*good*, you know they
will all forgive you, you know you might have to communicate with your
family over the Internet only anyway, it will hardly change a thing...
You know you want it...*

A little whining sound squeaked out of me, but I hadn't moved from my
seat. Nils was starting to look very uncomfortable; he clearly wanted to
leave. I took another swallow of water and rinsed away the latest
welling of venom. I took another breath of air.

Fire, again. But I knew what to expect with this breath. It was not
getting *worse*. And I hadn't eaten him yet. I couldn't relax -- but,
holding myself rigid and fighting my urges with every passing moment, I
could hold still. I could avoid leaping across the room at Nils and
*don't think about the taste* preventing him from going home to his
family.

Alice stopped urging him to stay. He put his water glass in the sink and
started making his way towards the door, looking uncomfortably at us.

One more useful test, to see if I could not only be in the same room as
a human but have a wedding performed by one. Which would involve
uttering words, and looking pretty in pictures rather than tortured and
struggling. I finished off the water in my bottle, filled my lungs with
scorching air.

I smiled at Nils, monitoring every facial muscle that I had control over
to make the expression natural-looking instead of a forced grimace.
"*Farvel!*" I said. One of the phrasebook bits -- "goodbye".

"*Farvel,*" he replied, looking no less puzzled. He let himself out. I
heard every one of his footsteps as he made his way to his car. I heard
his heartbeat, rapid with nervousness. I heard his car door open, and
slam, and his engine start up.

I waited to relax until I couldn't hear the car anymore. Everyone else
waited to relax until I did.

As soon as I sighed with relief and settled into a more neutral standing
position, Edward enveloped me in an intense hug. "*Bella,*" he
exclaimed. He sounded just as dazzled by my performance as I'd imagined.

I leaned into him and inhaled his soothing non-food scent. "I'm okay," I
breathed, confirming it to myself as much as to everyone else. "I'm
really okay."

Honeymoon
=========

I did not eat anyone on the way to Ukraine. We left early, so I'd have
time to fill up on animal blood as soon before the ceremony as possible.
While the others checked into a hotel in town, Edward rented a car and
drove me to a sufficiently human-free forested area in the middle of the
night, scouted ahead to make sure that there wasn't anyone about while I
waited in the car, and then gave me the go-ahead. I ate two elk, a lynx,
and a wild boar. (I found I liked the boar more than I had other
animals, for some reason. It had the same icky tang to it that they all
did, but I was able to interpret it as being more like yogurt or sour
cream than actual spoilage, to borrow a human food analogy.) By the end
of this feast I felt bloated and sloshy with all the excess blood -- I
felt like doing anything but eating.

In the hotel, there were smells of humans everywhere, but I didn't have
to get close to anyone. I focused on the way Edward's hand felt in mine
as we made our way back to our rooms in the wee hours of the morning,
and did not devour the night doorman, or any of our neighbors. The
traces the humans left in the room made the air dry and thirst-inducing,
but it was like Death Valley in the summer, not the interior of an
active incinerator. Unpleasant, but tolerable, almost ignoreable,
especially when I was so full.

We didn't sleep or ever urgently need the bathroom, so we were in two
adjacent rooms instead of spreading out over several -- a girls' room
where Alice and Esme and Rosalie (mostly Alice) fussed over me, and a
guys' room where the others stayed.

I heard Emmett and Jasper badgering Edward into having a bachelor party
at around three a.m. I furrowed my brow, wondering what they'd do, but
then shrugged to myself. It wasn't like Edward would look twice at
anyone else, even if they *did* hire strippers for some unfathomable
reason. He was *all* mine. I purred quietly, contemplating this fact.

Alice apparently knew better than to drag me to any human-filled place
for a bachelorette party I did not want, but she insisted on curling my
hair. She piled it up in a cascade of elegantly ironed ringlets on the
top of my head, secured with about six pounds of bobby pins. Most makeup
was impossible, since nothing would stick to vampire skin if we didn't
hold our faces in perfect stillness to avoid cracking paint or
dislodging clingy powder. But mascara *was* usable -- eyelashes, like
other hair, were unaffected except for growing more slowly. Alice
pleaded with me to let her dab a little bit on. I thought it looked
silly, gilt on the lily of my new face, but let her do it. Maybe it
distracted from the sleepy shadows under my eyes. (I never felt tired --
just looked like I could use a night's sleep, like all of us vampires
did.)

Once I'd been pinned and painted to her satisfaction, she smoothed down
her own dark spikes. Then she braided up Rosalie and Esme, coiling the
expertly woven plaits into buns affixed to the backs of their heads with
more bobby pins from her endless supply.

Edward and the others of his room left for our appointment first, so I
could get into my dress after he was out of mindreading range and reduce
the risk of his silly superstition bothering him.

Alice, ever eager to organize fancy things, had set everything up. We
were meeting an official who'd conduct the service in a picturesque
empty steppe, as well as a photographer -- the open air would help me
tolerate proximity to the humans. I had a bouquet, and so did Alice,
Rosalie, and Esme (my bridesmaids -- well, technically, bridesmatrons,
not that anyone ever used that word.) Alice had gotten them dresses,
too. Gold -- like the eyes I hoped to achieve through a scrupulous
"vegetarian" diet. I was wearing brown contact lenses again to avoid
spooking our celebrant.

There was no aisle, but Alice had scared up a privacy screen thing from
somewhere, and set it up in the middle of the grass. With Edward and the
human standing some twenty feet away, the rest of us huddled behind the
barrier so we could emerge as we were supposed to. The bridesmaids and
groomsmen (neither Edward nor I had designated a specific maid of honor
or best man) went first, pairwise: Esme and Carlisle, Rosalie and
Emmett, and Alice and Jasper. I heard the photographer's camera clicking
as he caught snapshots.

My father was not present, and I'd declined to have Carlisle walk me
down the "aisle". That meant I was alone. I was brimful with nerves --
*"aaaaaah I'm getting married what would Renée say"* -- but nerves were
not thirst. Anything but thirst was good. I took a deep breath of
relatively human-free air, shielded from their scents by the screen. I
took one long stride past its edge and turned towards the place where I
would be wed.

Edward looked stunning. He was so supernally, exultantly happy -- I'd
seen him smile like that *once* when I'd agreed to marry him, and there
it was again, and there was nothing else in the world, not even the warm
heartbeats of the photographer and the celebrant.

I managed not to break into a run. I took long, but measured, steps
towards him, feeling my face split into a grin of my own. In what seemed
like an age, but was really seconds, I was in my designated place, on
the side where my bridesmaids fanned out. Edward took my hands in his.

The service was in Ukrainian. I'd read through a phrasebook, again, and
memorized what I'd need to say when, but the recitation -- whatever the
local equivalent was for "We are gathered here today..." -- entered my
ears without my comprehending more than the occasional word and our
names. It would have even if it'd been in English, most likely; my eyes
were fixed on Edward, my mind was full of Edward, I was listening to him
breathe and clutching his fingers in mine. The celebrant was beneath
notice.

I said my lines when cued. They used up my air; I drew in another
breath, focusing on Edward's scent over the humans'. Glee over my
imminent marriage chased out the impulse to dart to my left and bite
into the man's jugular.

Edward spoke his own piece with triumphant emphasis. I lifted my hand
when it came time, and he added the wedding band to the engagement ring:
a delicate torus of gold, also his mother's, thin and slight enough to
tuck under the wide lattice of diamonds. It, too, fit perfectly.

The celebrant, all but forgotten in my rush of euphoria, said the words
that I knew were Ukrainian for, "You may kiss the bride."

Edward pounced on me as though it didn't matter if the humans saw his
improbable speed, as though no one was watching at all, as though the
only things in the universe were me and him and the fact that it was now
time for us to be kissing. His old-fashioned restraint was properly
obviated in matrimony; and I was safe to kiss; and I clutched at him
with just enough caution to avoid gouging holes in him but he didn't
protest, just held me tighter --

Emmett. Of course Emmett would *whistle*. Edward and I broke apart,
matching growls in our throats too low for the celebrant to hear. The
human looked indulgent, like he saw this sort of thing all the time. He
had no idea. Humans would explode if they felt like this. *Edward*
looked about to explode, so suffused with victory and satisfaction was
he. I might burst myself. I'd loved him human, if anything humans felt
deserved the word, but not like this. No heart also burdened with the
task of beating could take it.

I kissed him again; I couldn't resist and he didn't try.

Eventually we had to interrupt ourselves again, to stand in
photographer-dictated arrangements. We photographed every possible
combination. Me and Edward, me and all the bridesmaids, Edward and all
the groomsmen, me and Alice with and without Edward (for recipients of
only partial truth), the entire wedding party together, each pair of the
others.

The celebrant and the photographer had arrived separately, in their own
cars. They bade us goodbye and were on their respective ways, the latter
with a promise to send all the photographs in both physical and digital
formats as requested. (Edward translated, bending to whisper against my
ear, and almost before he finished his sentence I spun in his arms to
kiss him again.)

When they were gone, there was no human anywhere in view. I plucked my
contacts gently out of my eyes and dropped them on the ground, then
turned back to my husband.

"Dance with me," I whispered to Edward, and then we spun, full of grace,
placing our feet in flawless rhythm on the steppe, whirling in sync like
figurines in a music box.

We had almost two perfect weeks before disaster struck.

* * * * *

For our honeymoon, Esme loaned us her private island off the coast of
Brazil. It had been a gift to her from Carlisle, but stood empty most of
the time. The small airplane that Edward had rented to get us to and
from Ukraine couldn't be trusted to get across the Atlantic Ocean
without a stop, and I didn't want to spend an overnight flight in a
passenger jet full of humans. We could have swum, but it would have
taken a long time.

So Edward took a passenger flight and I went in his luggage. He was
nervous about the plan, thinking I might have some bad associations with
traveling in cargo holds, but it was a very different situation. I was
in a giant suitcase, with books to read (quite able to see them in the
dark), not in need of food or water or sleep or fresh air, not squishy
enough to be made uncomfortable by lumps under me or weights over me,
not crampable by awkward poses. Most importantly, I wasn't the captive
of a creature with many times my strength who was taking me to Italy
whether I liked it or not.

The suitcase was searched at every stop -- of course; I'd make any x-ray
machine they put me through go haywire -- but we'd prepared for that
eventuality. I held perfectly still, didn't breathe, kept my eyes
closed, and had a tag around my wrist that labeled me (in Norwegian,
English, and Portuguese) "*Untitled*: Mixed Media. 2004. Anonymous
artist." I could feel hot, damp hands poking at me, fumbling for the
tag. I heard them zip up the suitcase again. The time I was investigated
during our stop Stateside, I heard some confused mumbles about why such
a pretty statue was being transported without any packing peanuts and in
the same bag as a set of assorted language primers and a box of contact
lenses. I didn't think this inquisitiveness would go anywhere untoward.
I probably wasn't even the strangest-looking thing they'd seen that
month.

Edward picked me and our other bags off the carousel in Rio de Janeiro;
in the suitcase, I popped my contact lenses in. I was finally unpacked
after he'd rented a car and stashed the other items in the trunk; he let
me out at a moment when no one was looking and I unfolded myself into
the passenger seat. Promptly, Edward kissed me, which was not at all
unwelcome.

Eventually we remembered that we had somewhere to be and he drove to the
docks. He found a place to stash the car which would let him leave it
there for the extended duration he wanted, and then we divided our
belongings between us and I followed him to a sleek white boat that
floated among other, clunkier craft. I didn't know how to drive the
thing, but I watched Edward pilot it skillfully out into the water and
picked up on approximately what he was doing, under what circumstances,
and how the boat reacted.

The trip took just under an hour. The sun came up soon after the lights
of Rio were pinpricks in the distance -- no one could see us. I watched
my skin shimmer as I lazed idly in the boat.

Isle Esme came into view. It was a tiny island, a low beach trailing out
into the water on one side and swaying palms on the other. Our boat drew
up to the bleached wood of the docks, where Edward tied off. He swung
our bags out onto the planks and then scooped me into his arms.

"This is Esme's island, not ours," I pointed out. "You don't *have* to
carry me over this particular threshhold."

"I'm just being thorough," said Edward gallantly, positioning my weight
over one arm and scooping up the trunks with the other. I shrugged and
didn't protest as he carried me up a winding path to the island's house.

It was a big, pale house, with all the glass and white carpeting
characteristic of Esme's preferences in architecture. I imagined
Carlisle bringing Esme here for the first time, presenting her with a
tumbled-down ramshackle toy, and her setting to work outfitting it with
everything she wanted. Edward took one final triumphant stride through
the wide-open front doors. "Here we are, Mrs. Cullen," he said, savoring
my appended name like it was a piece of candy. Candy made out of blood,
I amended in my head as the analogy floundered. He set the suitcases on
the floor.

"Are you planning to put me down?" I asked mirthfully.

"Hmmm," he said, in mock thoughtfulness. "Not just yet, I think." I let
him carry me through the house -- it was rather large for such a small
island -- and into a big white room with a big white bed. Everything was
lit by late sunrise that streamed in through the glass eastern wall.

I smirked at Edward, raised an eyebrow, and lifted my left hand to let
the twin rings flash.

* * * * *

Among the enhanced vampire senses is touch.

* * * * *

Eventually, a few days later, we had to hunt. Well, I did, constant
newborn thirst working against me -- Edward could have waited another
week. He suggested going to the mainland, but I didn't want to take any
unnecessary risks with being near humans if I didn't have to, for all
that he said I was handling them brilliantly for my age. Instead, we
swam, looking for aquatic lunches. I ate most of a killer whale, finding
the giant creature's supply of blood a little too much to consume in one
sitting; Edward polished it off for me and then added a small basking
shark. Hunting underwater was interestingly different, and the whale was
even tastier than the wild boar had been (as animal fare went). Edward
assured me when I mentioned this that they were probably available near
Norway as well, having a wide range of habitat.

And then we went back to the island.

We didn't have to breathe, we didn't have to rest, we rarely needed to
eat.

Being a vampire was very... *very*... nice.

Edward promised me that it wouldn't bother Esme that some of her
furniture would need replacing. We arranged to be out, swimming around
in the warm water, when the cleaning crews came through to pick up the
remains of feather pillows and the splinters of bedframes.

Twelve days after we'd arrived on the island, several things happened.

* * * * *

First, my new cellphone rang. Alice had flung it at me after we'd
stopped in Norway after the wedding, and promised to keep my parents off
my back as long as she could. I told her that if they became truly
panicked she was to give them the number, if she really had to. And so
when it rang, I growled and interrupted what I was doing to answer it.
"Hello?"

"Hello. Can I speak to Bella, please?" growled Charlie's voice.

Of course. I sounded different. How had I not thought of that? I tried
to adjust the pitch and harshness of my voice, tried to remember what
I'd sounded like before it had been turned into chimes. "It's me, Dad."

"*ISABELLA MARIE SWAN!*" roared Charlie, apparently willing to accept
the faked voice as my own.

"Isabella Marie Swan *Cullen*," I corrected him. "Alice was supposed to
tell you -" How would I have felt about this if I were who Charlie
thought I was? Embarrassed, I guessed, but with a Renée-like enthusiasm
for my new direction in life -- though Charlie could never know how
permanent this change in course would be.

"I didn't want to talk to Alice!" shouted Charlie. "I wanted to talk to
*you!* You -- you -- you -- *eloped!* You're seventeen!"

"Yeah, we had to go to Ukraine to get married because of that -- Dad, I
knew you'd never give us permission, but Dad, we're so happy, please
forgive me," I pleaded. "*I'm* so happy."

Charlie growled incoherently into the receiver for a few minutes, and I
listened half-patiently for him to formulate another protest. Finally he
said, "Your mother has never even *met* Edward."

"We'll try to find a chance to visit her soon," I promised. If I put it
off till the winter, bought her tickets to Norway, and broke the heater
in the house, I could perhaps have an excuse to bundle up enough that my
changes wouldn't look so visible. Then Renée would be cold, but none the
wiser -- maybe. Or maybe Alice would see her understanding, accepting,
turning --

Charlie was ranting again. "It's astonishing, you know how Renée feels
about early marriage, but she was talking about how you're an 'old soul'
and know what's best. I was expecting her to lay into you, but she's
apparently content to wait for you to call her. But *I* want to know if
you're coming home."

"I'm in the middle of my honeymoon, Dad," I told him. "And then there's
the rest of the tour of Europe. That wasn't made up."

"What about after that?" he insisted.

"I don't really know, Dad," I admitted. "I was thinking I might want to
go to college early, with Edward."

"Oh, Bells," sighed Charlie, voice full of unaccustomed emotion.

"You'll be okay without me," I encouraged waveringly. "You were okay
without me before."

"I already miss you," he said.

"I miss you too, Dad," I choked, unable to cry. "I love you."

"Love you too, Bells," he sighed. "Have... have a good honeymoon."

"I will," I promised.

"I love you," Charlie said again, and he hung up the phone.

Edward hugged me as I flipped my cell shut. I sighed. "I assume you've
already tried every form of makeup in existence and there is nothing
that would make me look human," I said.

"Not if you want to move around," he said regretfully. "Anything that
sticks, cracks. Anything that doesn't crack, won't stick."

"What about a thin layer of Sculpey or something..."

Edward shook his head. "Stretches unnaturally under stress. You could
cover up everything but your face with clothes, but there's no way
anyone you've met before would believe you suddenly prefer to wear a
burqa."

I growled, and Edward petted me soothingly, and after a few minutes I
permitted the distraction and we were back where we had been.

* * * * *

Second, my new cellphone rang again.

A less than coherent snarl escaped my throat as I sat up and lunged
hatefully for the device. "Hello?" I said as musically as ever.

"Bella," said a woman's voice, quietly, urgently. Familiar, but not
instantly placed -- I must have known her only as a human -- who was she?
I thought about who Alice might have agreed to put through to me, who
the voice sounded like --

"Gianna?" I asked incredulously. "What is it?"

"Bella, I'm so sorry to ask, I hate to do it -- but can you send someone
to Italy?" asked Gianna in a thin whisper.

"I don't understand -- why?"

"I think they're going to kill me, Bella," she murmured. And then the
call suddenly cut off, leaving static in its wake.

I looked at Edward.

"Did you hear that?" I asked him quietly, and he nodded, looking grave.

"I don't think we can save her, Bella," he told me. "Her days were
numbered anyway. I thought they were going to keep her longer than this,
maybe until next year, but they were never planning to *keep* her like
she hoped." He guessed, correctly, that under the circumstances I would
waive my discomfort with hearing Gianna's thoughts in the hopes of
learning something that could help -- even though he clearly didn't have
much confidence in the possibility.

"I need to try," I told him. Gianna must have precious few contacts
outside of the Volturi. She knew I'd become a vampire, but didn't know I
was an uncommonly controlled newborn, one who could most likely avoid
devouring her. If she could have gotten ahold of anyone except me,
surely she'd have tried. But it seemed she expected me to ask a family
member to go. But she could have made that request through Alice. What
was going on?

I decided to call Alice.

Alice called me, and I picked up. "Hi, Bella," she said. "Did Gianna
call you?"

"Yes," I replied. "She thinks the Volturi are going to kill her, I don't
know how to help -"

"You're going to get another call," said Alice. "Aro sent you a letter
here in the Norway house -- and a present -- I didn't think it was a good
idea to keep him waiting for your answer so I phoned them and told them
how to reach you. They want to meet you in person. They were going to
come here, but I said you'd go to them. I see a lot of futures where
Gianna lives, so you *can* get her out," she promised. "But... I'm
having some trouble seeing exactly how. The Volturi know what I can do,
so they *might* be blocking me on purpose, dithering, but I can't tell.
You need to go to Volterra alone," she continued. "You *will* be fine on
the flight outside of a suitcase, just fill up first and turn your
little fan on if you want to breathe."

"Why do I have to go alone?" Not that I loved the idea of having Edward
there, readable, full of honeymoon memories...

Alice said, "I don't know. But you go alone in every future where Gianna
lives that I can see." She sounded frustrated, and like she had a
splitting headache. "Maybe you won't think of whatever it is you think
of, if Edward's there? But I'm guessing."

"Okay," I sighed, trusting.

"Santiago's going to call you," Alice said, and hung up abruptly.

* * * * *

Third, my new cellphone rang *again*. Santiago's voice was easier to
recognize, with advance warning. "Hello," she said, formal in her tone.

"Hello, Santiago," I replied, and I just barely heard a surprised little
noise when she noticed the glassy, lyrical quality my voice had taken
on. No reason to hide it from her -- reason to flaunt it, actually. "What
can I do for you?" I asked, speeding up a little, making it clearer that
I really was a vampire.

"Aro requests the honor of your presence at your earliest convenience,"
she replied. "He regrets the interruption but is eager to meet you early
in your new life."

"I'm packing as we speak," I said, watching Edward scowling as he folded
strewn things into neat squares and piled them into suitcases. "I'll be
there in perhaps a day."

"We are aware that you are a newborn, and remind you that it is strictly
forbidden to hunt within Volterra," she added.

"There's no need to worry about that," I told her. Let her draw her own
conclusions, assume I'd be coming with a contingent of guardian Cullens.
"That or other exposure."

"Very good," she told me. "I will see you soon." And with that, she
closed the phone.

"Go eat something," muttered Edward. "I'll finish packing."

I caught his hands in their flurry of activity, brought them up to my
lips and kissed them. "I'll be fine," I promised.

He looked up at me with troubled eyes, then freed his hands to cradle my
face and kiss me. I broke away apologetically after a minute, and went
to stock up on food.

* * * * *

Alice made my travel arrangements; I arrived at the Rio airport to find
flights booked all the way to Italy. Edward saw me off with immense
reluctance, and I inhaled only as much as I had to to talk to personnel.
(I'd spent the boat ride and the drive to the airport drilling myself in
Portuguese and Italian, enough to get through the trip. The little
Spanish I remembered from high school was surprisingly helpful.)

I had to visit the airport and airplane lavatories occasionally to
change my contact lenses. I spent the journey reading my language
primers -- there were Italian ones among them; I'd gotten a wide
selection -- and muttering supersonic practice sentences to myself. I
didn't walk off the plane in Rome fluent in the language, but I thought
I'd be able to communicate in an emergency.

In my bag, besides the supply of lenses and the books, was a large sum
of money, a shiny black credit card in my name, a forged American
passport and drivers' licenses for several countries with my new face
affixed to them, and various other necessities. I'd bought a bottle of
water at one stopover, but I was full enough of orca blood that I rarely
found I wanted it except when I had to breathe several times in close
succession.

It was close to midnight when I got to Italy. I rented a car at the
airport, flipped through a map on a rack at the facility while I waited
for them to drive it out to me, and set out for Volterra.

Parking was hard to find, but eventually I stashed the car at an
exorbitantly overpriced garage, rolling my eyes and waving my rings at
the lot attendant who tried clumsily to flirt with me. I understood
about two thirds of the words, but his leer was quite plain.

I vaguely remembered the route James had taken to get to the grate that
led to the Volturi compound. But it had been daylight, and I had been
human. I wandered the mostly deserted streets, trying to find a familiar
starting place. After a fruitless half hour, I started sniffing the air,
trying to find a trail of vampire scent without getting hit by a faceful
of human temptation. It took only minutes before I got a hint of the
characteristically cool and sweet aroma. Inexpertly, I followed it,
until I found the same hole James had jumped me down into. I took out my
contact lenses, which made it instantly easier to see the darkened
passage.

I leapt easily into the tunnel and followed it, up to the grating,
through the door and into the hallway. Only one guard was stationed at
the elevator door -- no one I recognized, unless I'd gotten a very brief
glimpse of him while human.

"I'm Bella Cullen," I told him.

"Come with me," he replied, and I went towards the elevator, trying to
conceal my apprehension. If he noticed it, he didn't comment.

I knew as soon as the elevator doors opened again that Gianna was in the
room. I spotted her a split second later, and once she saw me, her
expression was one of sheer terror. She shut her eyes.

"Gianna, it's me, Bella," I said, momentarily puzzled, and then I
realized she might know full well it was me -- and know full well I was a
newborn.

She opened one green eye, still trembling with fear.

"I'm not going to hurt you," I told her. "It's okay."

Gianna let out a huge breath. I clenched my teeth a little, but I wasn't
*very* thirsty, and I'd been getting all kinds of practice at not eating
people. Gianna was, if anything, less appetizing than the average random
stranger: I had extra reason not to eat her.

The Volturi guardsman looked nonplussed. I wondered if this was how
they'd planned to kill Gianna -- bring the newborn past her, have me tear
her to pieces in a fit of ill control, call it a crime, pin it on me,
use the leverage for -- something? But he recovered, and led me into the
maze. I made what I hoped was a reassuring face at Gianna. She,
bewildered, tilted her head and watched me go.

* * * * *

The guard led me through the maze much more swiftly than I'd gone as a
human, and the stairs and labyrinthine halls didn't seem as arduous to
pass through as they had before. In no time we were in the circular
chamber I'd seen before.

Aro -- as well as Marcus, Caius, and assorted other vampires -- were all
there. I flicked my eyes around, memorizing the faces for future
reference. I recognized Santiago, Jane and Alec, and three familiar ones
for which I had no names. Two vampires I didn't recognize were also
present. "Hello," I said, with a curtsey to Aro -- there was no reason to
put on an arrogant display. I was probably going to have to provoke him
one way or another during this conversation. If I had any leeway, I
wanted to keep it.

"Bella, my dear," said Aro, with barely detectable uncertainty in his
voice. He was staring at my eyes; I could imagine him thinking that yes,
that was newborn red, but where was the crazed bloodlust? "I'm surprised
that you come alone."

Did I have a good explanation for that, besides that Alice had said it
was a good idea? Not really... "It was me you sent for, wasn't it?" I
asked innocently. "My coven doesn't revolve around me."

"Of course," said Aro, agreeable. "I had originally planned to visit you
at your new home..."

"I'm glad I could spare you the travel."

"Mm. I largely hoped to confirm that you'd been turned, according to
law. I see that you have. Immortality would appear to suit you very
well." He was looking me up and down, with admiration or something close
to it.

"I have, just as I said I would be," I told him. "No humans suspect
anything odd about my disappearance and I'm going to make sure it stays
that way."

"That's good to hear." Aro paused. "I am impressed that you left Gianna
unharmed."

"I'm full," I said, mostly truthfully -- I had nearly finished my entire
whale alone, in preparation for a human-filled trek between continents,
and while I no longer felt like I'd ooze orca blood if poked, I wasn't
particularly empty either.

"In fact, in general you seem like a... unique... newborn," he
continued.

"My mind is protected," I reminded him. I didn't think this was actually
the reason I had such control, but it was something he already knew,
which *could* have plausibly stretched in that direction if I didn't
have other information.

"That's true. And it remains so?" he inquired. "From your mate?"

"Yes."

"And from me?" he asked, holding forth a hand.

I didn't pause as I raised my ringless right hand to touch his. With
enhanced senses, I could feel that his skin really was different from
other vampires'. He wasn't as smooth, and I thought I could detect
something like pores -- a commodity which I lacked. I wondered if makeup
would stick to *his* skin.

Aro let his hand fall, a small frown on his face. "How curious. Have you
noticed any change in your power since you joined us, apart from your
uncommon clearheadedness?"

"None," I replied. Of course, I'd been distracted, and I had *lots* of
new powers to try out that were easier to figure out.

"Hmm. Still... Do you have any interest in joining our guard, dear
Bella?"

How to get out of that without getting into any trouble... "I don't
think my mate would like to do that, and I must stay with him," I said.
That was probably plausible. Vampires never broke up, Edward had never
been interested in joining the Volturi. If there were any reason to
refuse them, it would be "my mate would be upset". And without Edward
here, Aro had to take my word for it, even if Edward would have reacted
differently (perhaps in response to someone's thoughts).

"I thought that might be the case," Aro sighed. "Well, I have no reason
to keep you here longer... I'd intended Gianna as a gift for you," he
added, raising an eyebrow. "Are you sure you don't want her before you
go? It's truly baffling, the way your coven has rejected our natural
diet..."

I thought fast -- what attitude was he trying to elicit, with this
"gift"? What did he *expect* me to do? "Oh, may I have her?" I asked,
innocently, pleased -- childlike. It was easier to act, as a vampire; all
I had to do was hit on the emotions I needed, encourage them to bloom in
the fertile ground of my distractable mind.

Aro's face broke into a broad smile. "Of course, child." *Bingo.*

"I'm so glad. I'd like to take her with me," I said.

His grin faltered. "Take her with you?"

I let my eyes go very wide. "I'm not going to eat her. My mate would be
disappointed." This was probably not actually true, but at least he
*should* be disappointed in me if I ate someone.

"But then what do you mean to do with her? I'm afraid you can't just...
release her into the wild," said Aro, waving a hand. "She knows too
much."

"Oh, no, that isn't my plan at all!" I said. "I'll bring her home with
me, of course."

"Are you hoping to turn her?" guessed Aro. "And add her to your coven?"

There was an edge to his voice, so slight that I might be imagining it.
But I guessed that the correct answer was *not* anything he would
interpret as: "yes, I seek to expand my coven's influence, when we are
already the largest coven in the world apart from your own even *not*
counting our extended family in Denali, and have values antithetical to
yours, by poaching your secretary and turning her where you were about
to let her die". I would have to want Gianna for something specific,
something that only she could do...

"I need her to bear my children," I told him.

* * * * *

"I beg your pardon?" asked Aro, after a silence of almost four seconds.
I had managed to surprise him.

"Before I was turned, since I had plenty of warning, one of my sisters
extracted some eggs," I explained. I didn't really want to discuss
anything this personal in a roomful of Volturi -- but Aro already knew
it; he'd read Edward after my surgery. "I'll eventually want to use them
-- at least one. I could hire a stranger to carry the child, but then I
couldn't keep a very good eye on her, because it would be very difficult
to closely associate with a human without giving myself away. But
Gianna's perfect. You've made an exception for her knowing all about us
yourselves *already*, so of course it's okay for her to realize what's
going on. I can keep her at home with me and make sure she's taken care
of."

"I... see." My situation as regarded the possibility of children was
probably unheard of among vampires. There was no precedent, no "legal"
grounding, to forbid me this. It *would* mean more vampires eventually --
I had no credibility whatsoever if I claimed I was planning to have
children and then *let them die*. But it would be over a time frame that
would look less alarming than just turning Gianna right away, if I
played my cards right. And Aro had already, very clearly, offered me
Gianna. I waited, unblinking, with the cutest, most innocent smile I
could muster on my face.

Marcus slid across the floor towards Aro, and they touched hands for an
instant. Aro glanced to Caius, who looked like he'd eaten something that
disagreed with him. Deprived of Alec's ability to keep me out of their
deliberations, Caius didn't speak either, just went to Aro and
communicated by thought transfer as well. I waited while Aro thought.
His eyes were closed, his face completely composed and neutral.

"My dear," said Aro after half a minute, assuming an almost avuncular
smile, "I said you could have Gianna, and have her you may. If that is
the use for her that suits you, far be it from me to deny you." Like I
was a four-year-old who'd gotten a nice toy and only wanted to play with
the box it came in. I hoped Gianna didn't hate my plan, was willing to
go through with whatever needed to be done in order to placate the
Volturi --

"Thank you," I said, bowing again.

"We shall have to send you visitors, in a year or two, to make sure that
you are pleased with your gift, of course," Aro went on. "I would hate
to discover that I'd offered you a present that you didn't like. The
same goes for the objects I sent to you in the mail. I hope they will
meet with your satisfaction." How... lovely. A deadline on my
reproduction. I managed to avoid crossing my fingers, hoping for
Gianna's -- and Edward's -- willingness to tolerate the situation. I put
off thinking about how I liked it myself. There was no safe way to back
out at this point.

"I haven't seen them yet, but I'm sure your taste is faultless," I said
diplomatically, "and that I will treasure them always."

"I dearly hope so, although a treasure like yourself would outshine
anything I could offer."

How long were we going to keep up this ridiculous exchange of
pleasantries? *Tell me to take Gianna and go, already...* "You're too
kind," I fluttered.

"Not at all, lovely child. As long as you are here, is there anything
else you should like to have?"

"I should hate to impose. I'm only glad that I could reassure you as to
my compliance with our law." That might count for something, identifying
the law as my own. I was rapidly finding that one of the most convenient
uses for perfect recall was the ability to keep my own subterfuge
straight.

"Well, then, I shall delay you no longer in your return to your mate and
your coven," said Aro genially. "The sun will be up in only a few hours.
I shouldn't like to keep you for so long that you would need to tarry
here for an additional day."

"My thanks," I said, with one more bow. "Until next time."

Aro nodded, agreeing, "Until next time."

* * * * *

I followed the route I'd taken up to the chamber, backwards, without
help -- although Santiago ghosted along behind me, presumably for some
combination of purposes including supervising my behavior and taking up
the underground guard post.

Gianna was still at her desk. She looked around when I approached;
Santiago swept past me into the elevator without looking back.

"Hello again," I said, trying to sound nonthreatening.

"H-hello, Bella," said Gianna tremulously.

"It's okay," I promised. "I'm not going to hurt you. I'm going to take
you home with me, okay? You're going to be fine."

She stared at me, at my red eyes.

"Would you feel better if I put contact lenses in?" I asked, raising an
eyebrow. "*I am not going to eat you.*"

"Where are we going?" she asked in a small voice.

"Norway. My family's there. We don't eat humans," I promised her. "Come
on, I'm sure Alice booked us a flight, I don't want to miss it. What do
you need to bring?"

"I -- not much -- passport, clothes," Gianna fretted. She didn't get up
from her seat.

"Do you want me to help you pack?" I prodded.

"They're not going to kill me?" she asked in a small voice.

I winced. "Uh... Aro gave you to me, as a "present". I think he thought
I'd kill you, before, but I didn't. And I'm not *going* to kill you. And
my family is not going to kill you. We'll do our best to keep you safe.
Please pack your things. Come on, I wouldn't need you to pack if you
were going to be food, would I?"

Whether she accepted this logic or the sheer repetition just finally
sank in, Gianna got to her feet and managed to walk out of the room on
wobbly knees. I waited, seeing no reason to continue to frighten her.

Gianna took only eighteen minutes to pack. She came back with one, small
suitcase -- either she didn't have much or wanted to bolt and leave a lot
of things behind. "Ready?" I asked her when she wheeled her bag into the
entryway. Gianna nodded mutely.

"Is there a better way out than that?" I asked, pointing at the elevator
door. She nodded, and showed me through locked doors (to which she had a
key, and which she locked behind her) into a part of the compound I'd
never been to before. It looked like some kind of art or history museum,
complete with velvet ropes and an information desk, but Gianna seemed in
a hurry, so I didn't linger over this oddity. We passed through the
darkened, deserted museum in a couple of seconds and out into the
streets of Volterra.

I was a little turned around, but after a moment recalling and adding up
all my twisting travels, I figured out where we were in relation to my
car. I put a new pair of contact lenses in and led Gianna along.

She followed me without speaking at all; I could hear her heart beating
too quickly, and wondered if she was okay. But I didn't know how to ask
after her condition without risking spooking her further, and she was at
least capable of following me where I led. I got her into my rental car
and drove us back to the airport.


