Ambition
========

As I'd expected, Alice had gotten us both booked and we were soon on our
way to Norway. "Are you okay?" I finally asked Gianna, as the plane took
off. I kept my voice low enough so that nearby travelers wouldn't hear.

"I'm fine," she squeaked, sounding less than fine.

"Gianna, you are not in danger," I reminded her. Then, "Flying is the
safest form of travel."

That got a choked, sob-like giggle out of her. "Do you really think
they'll let me live, after deciding to kill me?" she asked in a breathy
whisper.

"That depends on why they decided to kill you," I said. "It could have
been that they have something against *me*, and thought it'd be useful
if I ate you, since then they could be offended and have something
concrete against me."

"Maybe," Gianna murmured.

"How did you know they wanted you dead?" I asked.

"I hear more than they think I do. Not everything, but... I heard
Chelsea and Santiago talking..."

"Who's Chelsea? And remember to keep your voice down. I can hear you
just fine."

"One of the guard. She -- her power is a little like Marcus's. He sees
relationships; she can weaken them or build them up. They use it to keep
the guard unified, to divide covens they punish. I heard Santiago asking
her to... break the one between Santiago and me. I didn't know there was
anything to speak of. None of them were my *friends*. Santiago was more
cordial than most of them, I suppose. But the only reason I could think
of to break anything that might have been there was, would be if I was
going to die, and Santiago didn't want to care."

"Did you hear what Chelsea said?" I asked.

Gianna shook her head. "She was too quiet. But I went out for lunch and
called you. Your coven-mate, Alice, let me through. I don't think they
know I did it, or that I heard Santiago."

"Probably not." I paused. "Uh, there's a complication with how I got you
out, that you should know about."

Gianna went stiff in her seat. "What?" she asked in a small voice.

"I had to explain why I wanted to get you out, I needed to have some
*use* for you. Aro said I couldn't just let you go off by yourself
because you know too much. I wasn't going to eat you, and that didn't
leave me a lot of options." I required another lungful of air, but the
scents of humans had almost stopped bothering me. I sipped from my
complimentary water anyway, just to be safe -- it would be a long flight.
"I, uh, told him that I need you to be the surrogate mother of my child
or children."

She stared at me. This was an entirely reasonable reaction.

"My sister harvested some eggs before I turned," I explained. "I wasn't
planning to use them soon. Actually, I didn't have any concrete plans to
use them at all, I was just hanging onto them in case I wanted them
later. But they exist, and it was something I could say, that would
explain why I'd need a live human around who knows about us. But Aro
said he was going to check on me in a year or two to make sure I'm
"pleased with my gift". So that means that unless you really hate the
idea, or my husband does, or we think of a great way around it..."

"No, that's fine," said Gianna. "I'll help you."

I hadn't expected such ready acquiescence.

"Can I ask you a favor?" she asked tentatively, after a pause.

Ah. "What is it?"

"...Do you know why I was with the Volturi to begin with?" she asked.

"You wouldn't tell me," I reminded her, and she flinched. I was starting
to think that she'd been very thoroughly trained to obey vampires and
the fact that I retained continuity with my human self, whom she'd given
the runaround, was throwing her off. "If you're willing to share now,
I'd like to hear it."

Gianna ducked her head. "What I did tell you was true. They tell a lot
of vampire stories in Volterra." She paused. "I believed them... and so
did my brother. Ilario. He believed more than I did. He wanted to be one
himself. He looked for them, but never found them, and then he got sick.
He's going to die. The doctors said there was nothing I could do, but he
told me that there was -- and I did it -- and I found the Volturi, and I
knew they'd never help my brother themselves once I realized how they
are, but I thought perhaps they would -"

She'd started crying partway through this recitation. I could fill in
the rest of it myself. If the Volturi had "kept" her, she could have
turned her brother -- or tried, anyway. Gianna probably didn't know that
syringes worked, and I didn't think even *I* could manage to administer
venom by mouth without flipping out and devouring the human I'd meant to
save.

I wanted to offer Gianna a tissue, but I didn't have any; she sniffled
for a minute, and then collected herself. "Gianna," I said, "do the
Volturi know about Ilario?"

"Aro's read me," she said quietly.

Well, then --

Wait. *Did* that necessarily mean that he knew about her brother? He
could absorb a lifetime of memories with one touch. But vampires had
*perfect recall*, nothing more or less than that. Could he *process* a
lifetime of memories that quickly? I'd spent hours and hours just
re-reading *my own notes* and integrating them with my memories. That
sort of thing wasn't the work of an instant. Would he have bothered to
spend a couple of days analyzing Gianna's? Even if things she'd
forgotten with her imperfect recording weren't accessible to him either,
it'd be a richer set of stuff to take in than my notes and hazy, blocked
human memories. I was almost sure that he wouldn't bother with the far
longer period of time it would take to deal with more complex,
better-remembered, and *longer* vampire histories.

This probably boiled down to a very significant limitation. I'd need to
check with Carlisle and Edward, to confirm or disconfirm. Aro *might*
just have an astronomical mental capacity incomprehensibly greater than
that of every other vampire. He *might* be quite capable of assimilating
hundreds of years of sleeplessness where every last sixteenth of a
second was packed with sense data and thought, all in a mere moment. And
capable of doing this without toppling over as though affected by Alec's
power, cut off from the present and his own experiences by the foreign
additions.

But *probably*, he could only find memories he *looked for* -- memories
he *knew* to look for. Either he had to plan to seek them before
touching his target, so he could catch them as they flashed by; or he
stored them all as they came in, and then could investigate them at his
leisure. The first would be less dangerous, because it meant that only a
fresh read could get him information he didn't yet possess. But even the
latter was importantly different from his simply knowing everything his
targets knew.

Edward might not know. He (and Alice and Jasper), despite their extra
senses, didn't have any spare room in their heads relative to the
baseline vampire. If Edward was listening to Aro's mind when Aro took in
someone's thoughts, it probably sounded like a compressed blur -- he'd
get a couple of images, could probably swipe anything he was
particularly trying to see, but wouldn't be able to distinguish between
the possibilities unless Aro ruminated on his limitations in Edward's
range.

This was unlikely to mean that Aro hadn't learned about Ilario. If he'd
read Gianna, the most obvious motivation was to discover why she'd
looked for the Volturi and whether she could be trusted. Her brother was
clearly relevant, the sort of thing he'd have dug up.

But it could mean that my private moments with Edward were safe unless
he was some kind of silly voyeur. It could mean that he didn't know
about the Quileutes. It could mean that I could plan the Volturi's
downfall with the help of others, given certain precautions. It could
mean that *he was less powerful than he thought we believed him to be*.

"Then he probably knows," I told Gianna. My own head was still the
*safest* place to hide information. Gianna didn't need to hear this, not
yet. "But there may be a way for us to save your brother anyway. You say
he wants to be a vampire?"

She nodded. "Very much. I don't think he knows all the details -- but I'm
sure he won't care."

"And he *believes* in vampires," I pressed. *Oh, but Aro, of course we
had to turn him -- he knew too much -- you know how much respect we have
for the law --*

Gianna nodded again.

"Okay. I think we can do this. But we've got to check in with my family
first."

"*Thank you,*" she said fervently.

"Do you want to be a vampire too?" I asked. "After Aro's been convinced
that I wanted you for the reason I told him?"

Gianna thought. "If my brother were already safe, and didn't need me to
be one..." *Say yes,* I thought at her uselessly, *yes you do...*

She seemed really stumped by the question. "I mean," I said, "not like
one of the Volturi. I'm sure my family, or our friends in Alaska would
take you in." I still needed to *meet* the Denalis. Perhaps there would
be time for that soon.

"What is it *like*?" she asked.

"Oh, I can't even -- it's amazing," I said. "The transition is..." I
mulled over the word choice, too quickly for her to catch it. "*Not
fun*. But mine was better than most and we could do the same things for
you. And being a vampire is the most marvelous thing. Did you know we
can see ultraviolet? And everything feels and looks and sounds and
smells so intensely." She flinched when I said *smells*. "And," I went
on, "the evidence suggests that if you know about vampires beforehand,
if you're expecting to become one before you start turning, then it's
easier to control yourself, have the full use of your rational faculties
to start with and not slaughter humans. I'm not magical like that -- I
have a power, but that isn't it. I just had warning."

"Oh," she said, a fascinated glint in her eye. "It's as wonderful as it
looks? The way you move, and sound..."

"It's more so. A hundred times more so. My experience might be a little
better than most," I allowed, "because I turned with my mate already
waiting for me, and that isn't likely to happen for you. But even
without Edward -- yes, better than it looks." *And turning is worse than
it looks,* my conscience hissed at me. *Nothing can* look *that bad,
there's only so much volume you can get out of one pair of lungs when
you scream...*

"I think I would want it even if Ilario didn't need me," said Gianna,
speculative. "But I will help you first, with a child, if it seems like
that makes the most sense. Will your sister be willing to take eggs from
me as well?"

"I'm sure she will." I wasn't, but I was sure I could convince her or
get Carlisle to do it. My conscience prickled. "Uh, Gianna... It's
*worth it*. It really is. Eternal life alone is worth it, even without
the added bonuses, which are themselves awesome. But while you're
turning, it won't feel that way. No matter how much you believe it now.
There's nothing you can imagine that's enough to prepare you. When I
said "not fun", that was a flippant reference to how my sister Alice
described it to me before I turned -- she can't remember her own turning
at all. She was going by secondhand information. I remember everything
about mine except the beginning, because Carlisle put me in a coma
first. And it's not going to feel like anything could be worth it, while
you're in the middle of it."

Gianna went still and quiet. "I don't know what to think about that,"
she said after a silence.

"It's worth it," I told her again. "And you'll get it easier than me.
We'll put you in a coma too and as soon as you come out of it, a broken
spine will cut off most of the pain -- I didn't think of that until hours
after I woke."

This had probably not been a clever thing to say, I decided, after
looking at Gianna's expression. The pinch to my neck was so laden with
positive associations of relief and mercy in *my* head, and I didn't
think of the injury the way any given human likely did. In Gianna's
mind, "broken spine" was probably very high on the list of things least
pleasant to experience. I had memories of two hundred fifty nine
thousand, one hundred and twelve seconds which each would individually
place higher on that list than anything I would have been capable of
experiencing with fully human mind and nerves.

"But we won't push you into anything you don't want to do," I said
reluctantly. *But on the other side everything is beautiful and you can
keep it all forever...*

"If Ilario's going to do it, then I will too," she said, and that
sounded firmer than her previous statement.

I grinned at her.

* * * * *

The rest of the flight was mostly small talk, tidbits about our
respective lives that had for whatever reason not made it into our
e-mails. Gianna was 23; Ilario was her only sibling, and two years
younger; their parents were alive but irretrievably senile; she'd found
the Volturi ten months previously (I was briefly startled to realize
that Gianna had known vampires for longer than I had, when I felt like
I'd known them forever).

Edward picked us up at the airport. Rosalie had gotten around to buying
at least a few cars, apparently, because the sleek black thing he drove
was definitely not a rental. I wondered if she'd grabbed one for me --
she'd asked me what kind I wanted and I told her I had no idea, and was
willing to leave it up to her expertise. She wasn't quite as pleased as
Alice with permission to buy me a new wardrobe bursting with chiffon,
but she'd seemed to find it a compliment.

I hadn't yet directly taken much frivolous advantage of practically
unlimited financial freedom, although Edward had troubled to make it
very clear that, as his wife, I was entitled to it as much as he was.
He'd informed me in no uncertain terms that I shouldn't hesitate to whip
out my shiny black credit card if I saw something I liked. ("But if you
need more than a couple million dollars at a time," he'd said, "let
Alice know so she can spook her stockbrokers first.") Mostly I'd
deferred various purchases to people with a specialized interest in
making them. Now that I was moving around in the human world without
much trouble it was probably time for me to take a more personal
interest in my possessions.

Conversation during the drive between the airport and the house was
limited; I did want to talk to Edward about my insight on Aro and the
condition of Gianna's release, and he like everyone else in the family
needed to be informed about Ilario. However, the first conversations
were best kept between the two of us to start with, and the second would
be more efficient with everyone there.

He drove fast, of course, and it didn't take long for us to reach home.
The cars were living outdoors for the time being, but I could see the
skeleton of a garage going up. The house itself looked completely
refinished -- fresh paint and sanded surfaces and new window glass. Esme
had been busy over the last couple of weeks. We brought Gianna into the
house, gave her a purposeless little room with a bed in it on the first
floor, confirmed that someone had brought in some groceries for her to
feed herself and generally deal with human needs, and let her alone to
settle in. It was surprisingly unceremonious -- having Alice around took
a lot of the oomph out of significant lifestyle changes.

When Gianna had shut the door to her new room and could be heard
unpacking, I turned to Edward. "I believe," I said, "that you've got a
threshold to carry me over."

"I believe I do," he agreed.

* * * * *

I spent four minutes running around in our cute, tiny cottage,
inspecting everything and exclaiming over it. Edward had already seen
plenty of the place, in Esme's mind and Alice's, and didn't need to
investigate so thoroughly; he watched me with a fond and indulgent look
on his face. Alice had been in the house before, and moved all my
clothes old and new into a closet that was almost half as big as the
entire rest of the building. Edward's were relegated to a corner of the
crowded walk-in, pushed there by my inordinately large collection; she
was not quite so fond of buying men's clothes. She had not been able to
*quite* resist buying me posh swaths of dress-shaped silk and satin, but
there were only half a dozen of the most impractical numbers. The rest
of it was more discreetly upscale.

It was a compact home, so in short order I'd seen everything and
returned to Edward's side.

Simultaneously, we said, "We need to talk."

* * * * *

"What's your thing we need to talk about?" I asked Edward.

"It's kind of a long story -- what's yours?" he said.

"I have several," I replied. "One is that I thought about something that
might constitute a limitation on Aro's power, besides my immunity. It
might or might not have already occurred to you. The second is about
what I had to tell Aro to get Gianna out, and what we need to do about
that. And then there's a favor I want to do for Gianna. Why don't I
start one of mine, and then it'll be your turn?"

Edward nodded, and I related the thought processes and dialogue that had
led up to the situation with Gianna. "So," I concluded after the
explanation, "unless we have a brilliant alternative plan, Gianna needs
to have, or be noticeably pregnant with, my child by the time Aro
investigates us, on some unspecified date on the order of a year or two
from now. I guess that's probably enough time to find a sperm donor." I
winced apologetically. "I didn't have a chance to consult you, or time
to think of anything else I might want a human for that Aro would find
plausible."

"And how do you feel about that?" asked Edward. He was carefully looking
neutral about it -- probably trying not to pressure me either way with
his own feelings.

I hadn't stopped to consider this in any detail. I took this invitation
to do so, and thought.

When I'd said to Aro that I needed Gianna to bear my children, I had
been motivated by the need to get her out, to save her. Now that she was
freed but would be checked up on, any comparatively weak opinions I had
about child-rearing were close to irrelevant for purposes of what I
would do. I didn't *hate* the idea so much that I'd let Gianna die to
avoid it. I didn't *love* the idea so much that I'd demand her
participation even if I found a way to bail her out for free. But there
was a reasonably wide range of possibilities between those two extremes,
and Edward -- as well as I -- wanted to know where I was on the spectrum.

I wasn't thrilled about the sperm donor part. Some stranger's child. But
Edward had gone and become a vampire before collecting gametes had been
medically realistic, so that meant that (sooner or later) I needed to
figure out how I felt about having children without the chance that
they'd have his hair or his nose or something.

I supposed a pair of vampires who never needed to sleep would have a leg
up in the parenting department. I was only seventeen, but it wasn't like
I was getting any older. With twenty-four hours in a day, and each
second sufficient time to actually accomplish something, I didn't find
the prospect of adding childcare that terrible of a time sink. So maybe
it'd take me two or three times as long to learn Farsi when that came up
on my list -- wow, an entire week and a half per language, the horror.

Kids were typically cute, but varied in personality as much as adults
did. The odds were pretty good that my own would be similar to me in at
least some ways. Paging through descriptions of donors would be another
level of control. There were plenty of people with adversarial
relationships with their parents, but I'd gotten along all right with
mine, and they'd gotten along all right with theirs. If there was any
genetic correlation, there would probably be no serious issue there.

I wondered what it would do to a human child, to have vampire parents.
Among other things, we weren't warm and huggable. I supposed we could
wear fluffy coats or something, if that seemed important. In most
visible ways, we could pass for human, though; we'd be likely to raise a
*quirky* kid, but probably not an outrageously bizarre one unless we
were very incautious. It might be wise for Edward and I to live alone
with our child in case a scraped knee set Jasper off. For that matter, I
would need to test *myself* around fresh human blood before I could be
sure of mothering a human baby safely.

The timing wasn't ideal. We wouldn't be the first couple to wind up with
a honeymoon baby -- or the nearest artificial equivalent -- but a child
would restrict us in some ways. For example, if I decided I wanted to
spend a year living in the Mariana Trench for no particular reason, that
would not be something I could do with a toddler. After fifteen or
twenty years, though, my offspring could likely be left more or less to
his or her own devices. And I didn't think I'd run out of
child-compatible things to occupy myself with in that time.

The fact that Edward and I wouldn't age and the child would could get
awkward. We looked a bit young to be parents to an *infant*, let alone
an eight-year-old or a teenager. That would just mean that we'd have to
teach him or her to call us by our names and pretend to be our niece or
my sibling or something in public, though.

And I could show Charlie and Renée their grandchild. That wouldn't be a
problem as long as we found a way to be away ourselves at the time --
drill the kid on airport procedures, send them to Washington or Arizona,
let the relevant grandparent pick them up. It might be, in some small
way, compensation for the fact that there might never be a way for *me*
to see them again face-to-face.

"Well," I said finally, having spent about forty seconds to fully mull
over all those thoughts, "it's sooner than I had in mind, but I kind of
like the idea of having at least one."

"That's good," said Edward in relief, touching my face, "because I found
out after you left Rio that it may be possible for vampires to have
children."

* * * * *

"Does Rosalie know?" I asked immediately.

Edward winced. "Not *female* vampires," he said. "At least not that I
discovered."

"Spill," I insisted.

"After I saw you off to Italy," said Edward, "I went back to the island
to leave a note for the cleaning crew, so they would know that we
weren't going to be there as long as planned. They were there when I
arrived, but one of them had brought her cousin to help, who's familiar
with a lot of local legends and had a good guess of what she was looking
at as soon as she saw me. Since all she'd heard about who was using the
island was that it was a young couple, the first thing she thought when
she saw me without you was that I'd eaten you." He smiled wryly. "I
explained that you were my wife and had been called away prematurely,
and her *next* thought was that you were *pregnant* and rushing home."

"She still thought I was human at that point?"

"Right -- but I didn't understand how she could think it anyway, when for
one thing I'm a vampire and for another you wouldn't have been showing
after only twelve days."

"It didn't occur to her that a lot of humans cheat on their spouses?" I
asked dryly.

"Didn't cross her mind just then, at least, which was curious," Edward
replied. "I managed to convince her I wasn't going to hurt her, or you,
and I got her talking. The Ticuna Indians, of which she was one, have
legends about vampires who seduce young women -- and their stories say
that pregnancies can result."

The vague plans for raising a human child evaporated in my head. We
could have *our* child. I felt my face spreading into a much less
ambivalent smile...

"But," said Edward (I froze), "the pregnancies are supposedly
unnaturally rapid. That was why she'd thought twelve days would be
enough to notice. Start to finish, it takes about one month -- but you
can imagine the toll that takes on a human body, going from zygote to
infant nine times faster than normal. She didn't know of any stories
where the mothers survived. Not least because the children aren't at all
typical."

"Not typical how?"

"That, she didn't know much about. But if there are stories about
half-vampires, there might be actual half-vampires, somewhere -- South
America would be a good place to start. I wanted to come straight home
to meet you and discuss it before investigating any further."

"If it'd kill Gianna..." I said uncomfortably.

"These are *old* stories," he told me. "Perfectly ordinary pregnancies
were dangerous then -- no modern medicine. And vampire venom can do some
amazing things. When Esme was found at the bottom of the cliff, she was
brought directly to the morgue, because they didn't think there was a
chance they could save her -- but her heart was beating, and Carlisle
turned her and now she's fine. None of us were in such good shape -- you
were the only one in perfect health. I know Gianna was hoping that the
Volturi would turn her anyway."

"She was, but not for the reason you're thinking." I told him about
Ilario, barely clinging to life. "Now, I asked her, and she said she'd
still like to be a vampire even if he didn't need her help to turn, and
she said she'd be willing to help us out with surrogacy -- but I don't
know if she'd sign on for pregnancy-on-rocket-powered-roller-skates
that's believed to regularly kill people just because we *might* be able
to save her with venom at the end of it."

"Of course if we determine that there's no way that's safe for her to
carry a half-vampire, she shouldn't," Edward assured me. "But it seems
worth investigating." There was a trace of something in his voice that
he was trying not to make too obvious -- perhaps it really mattered to
him that our child be biologically his own but he knew that it would do
no good to press the issue if I thought it would be at the expense of
Gianna's safety.

I nodded. "I think it's safe for us to take six months to research and
decide," I said. "Even if Aro checks in after just one year and we wind
up going with a slower-developing human baby, she'll show by then."

"I agree," Edward said.

"Is there going to be any trouble dealing with Ilario?" I asked.

"I don't think it would be wise to have him and Gianna in the same place
when he's first turned," said Edward. "Unless he adjusts like you --
which he might, if your theory is correct -- then it wouldn't be safe for
her."

"So should Ilario go somewhere else, or should Gianna?" I asked. "And
where to? The Denalis have already got David, and he's *not* unusually
well-adjusted -- Gianna can't go there. Ilario could after he's turned,
but it's not obvious how we'd get an uncontrolled newborn to Alaska
safely."

"It might be necessary for the family to split up temporarily," Edward
said. "We'll discuss it with everyone."

I frowned, not quite happy with that idea. But if Ilario managed as well
as he might, didn't eat his equivalent of Nils when tested, then it
would amount to some of us taking him on a couple weeks' vacation in
some remote area and then bringing him back. Fair enough.

"And my last thing," I said.

* * * * *

Edward had barely any idea how Aro's power worked. Aro didn't think
about it explicitly himself, at least not in range. "When he's decided
to find something in particular, and I listen, I can always catch that
thing," Edward said. "But the rest of it is too fast. It doesn't spend
enough time as a surface thought for me to read it. If there's a
different way he retrieves absorbed memories and personal memories, I
can't tell the difference when he remembers things."

"So that doesn't narrow it down," I said. "It looks like there are three
possibilities. That he's as powerful as he wants everyone to think, or
that he stores but doesn't automatically process everything from his
targets, or that he has to know what he's looking for in advance."

Edward nodded. "I can't believe I never thought of this before -- he has
no reason to leave the Quileutes alone; by rights he'd want to
obliterate them in case the activated version of the species ever
resurfaces. But the most recent occasion wasn't even the first time he's
read one of us since we encountered them seventy years ago."

"That means we can probably rule out the first, then," I said. "But is
there a safe way to tell between the second and third?" We thought. The
problem was that, of things that made suitable test topics, there were
very few that we thought we'd *like* it if he came to think about them.
It would be safe to make oblique references to werewolves and read his
thoughts about them *if* the last hypothesis were true, because he'd
assume that we were talking about the Children of the Moon and wouldn't
have any special reason to go poking around the next time he read a
Cullen. But if the second one were the case instead, then bringing up
werewolves could lead him to dig up exactly the memories that would send
the Volturi guard on a killing spree in La Push.

And in fact, if Aro ever had cause to discuss werewolves or a related
topic with his own coven, this could happen at any time *anyway*... if
Caius expressed skepticism that they'd truly driven the Children of the
Moon extinct, if someone in the guard had a penchant for horror novels
and discussed them over a shared supper, if Aro developed an interest in
Native American culture...

I didn't say that out loud.

Instead, I said, "Edward, do you trust me?"

"Absolutely." This was not, as he used it, an emphatic form of "yes"; it
was a description of his trust. It was absolute. And I needed no less.

"I want you to stop thinking about this, and not to bring it up with
anyone else," I said. "And I may need to travel or use medium-large sums
of money unexpectedly, alone. I want you to avoid thinking about that or
talking about it any more than you have to. I might need you to pretend
to our family that you're on a trip with me so the others don't become
curious. I might ask weirder things unexpectedly without being able to
explain."

Edward understood -- not all of it, but enough. My mind was still the
only place where things could definitely go on without risking Aro's
knowledge -- if he merely happened to be *idly curious* about the wrong
thing, even the third and safest type of scenario was dangerous. It
wasn't as though anyone he chose to ask for a handshake could refuse to
be read without falling under immediate suspicion. There was no reliable
safeguard but my own contrary witchcraft.

* * * * *

Edward and I went back to the main house. Carlisle had gotten Ilario's
information from Gianna and was already in the process of getting him
transferred to his new private specialist practice in Norway. Carlisle
had begun a new job at a hospital in the nearest town, but he was
working as a surgeon, not an oncologist. So the practice was fictional,
and so was the clinical study which Ilario was invited to participate
in. But Gianna's help let the process go much more smoothly. She got on
the phone with her brother when he had a lucid hour, said the magic
words, and soon had him demanding to be sent north.

Rosalie arranged to pose as Carlisle's medical assistant -- she had the
knowhow to pull off the role and, unlike Edward, wasn't among the
witches that the Volturi desperately wished to collect. Her presence in
Volterra wouldn't attract undue attention. She hied herself off to Italy
to pick up Ilario, seeming unresentful -- maybe she was happy to help
Gianna because Gianna was planning to bear the first, and possibly last,
baby the family would ever have.

It was decided that after Ilario arrived, but before he started to turn,
Edward and I would go with Gianna to the house the Cullens kept in
Québec. In theory, Gianna could have gone alone -- she was an adult, she
could drive, etcetera -- but she thought it was better to stick with me,
in case Aro checked in early to make sure I hadn't "released her into
the wild". Since it suited my purposes to be in North America, I didn't
put up a fight.

After these things had been set into motion, Alice insisted that I be
presented with Aro's other presents. Her eagerness should have tipped me
off to the nature of the things, but at least they were far less creepy
than the gift of a human being. One was a box, but no typical box: it
was made of ancient wood, inlaid with gold and mother-of-pearl that lay
flush with the surface. It was also dotted with gems in a rainbow of
colors -- small ones, but so many that the entire box glittered. Inside
the box was the other gift. Alice said that it was one of the few
objects in the world that wouldn't be outshone by the priceless box
itself: a golden chain, woven into rope that could coil around the
throat and clasp there. Attached to this necklace was a diamond about as
big as my eye -- not just the visible portion, the entire thing.

Carlisle identified this item as one of the crown jewels pawned by John
of England in the thirteenth century.

*Yeesh.* Was this an attempt to get me interested in joining their
guard? It didn't seem like practical combat gear, so I couldn't see the
ornament being presented as a message of "join us and you will get more
old shiny rocks". I'd *met* some Volturi women -- they wore cowls or
sundresses, they weren't dressed to go to the Oscars or like they'd just
committed jewel heists.

I put my box and necklace in my cottage, on the shelf above the dresses
I had no plans to wear. Just to be contrary to the Volturi in a safe
way, I put on the bracelet that Edward had given me on Valentine's day.

And then, faced with a moment of downtime that wasn't on an airplane, I
called my mother. She was surprisingly even-keeled about my having
eloped, telling me that I had good judgment and she was sure Edward was
a wonderful "boy, I mean man". She wanted to be visited, but thought
(luckily) that we ought to have time to be newlyweds first. That bought
me time. I told her, in my artificially low and scratchy voice, that I
loved her and was thrilled to be married, and thanked her for her vote
of confidence.

* * * * *

The next day, Ilario showed up, wheeled in by Rosalie. He looked awful --
it was impressive that he'd managed to survive as long as he had,
although I supposed vampire-related hopes might have helped. It was one
of those cancers that leave one with a couple of months to live, that
rare individuals sometimes managed to hold up under for longer -- but not
well. At least not in Ilario's case. He had no hair, he slept most of
the time, he had to be fed via tube. The trip had not done him any good
either. He was able to confirm that he really and truly wanted to become
a vampire; he was able to smile weakly at Gianna -- and that was all he
had in him for the day.

Carlisle didn't have any more coma drugs. There hadn't been enough
warning about Ilario to get them, and the little hospital he worked at
didn't keep them on hand. But Carlisle did have plenty of morphine on
hand. I watched, out of curiosity, as painkillers and then two syringes
full of clear venom were injected. Gianna was out of the room at this
point -- no one wanted her to have to hear her brother scream.

Ilario didn't scream. In fact, he didn't do anything. He held perfectly
still, though I could hear his heart beating steadily. Had the morphine
eliminated the pain as effectively as my coma had? If so, and if it
lasted longer than thirty hours, it should be the new gold standard for
humane turning in the future -- I'd have to ask him about it later.

Since Ilario wasn't in obvious, heart-wrenching pain, we let Gianna in
to hold his hand, and to tell him -- in case he could hear -- that she
loved him. Then we had to leave to catch our plane to Canada.

On the trip, Gianna slept most of the way, and Edward taught me French.
It was faster learning with a conversation partner than out of a book,
and while I still wasn't fluent in *any* of the languages I'd started
learning, I had smatterings of a whole bunch of them. I'd be able to
find my way around in Québec.

But I didn't plan to spend much time there.

We arrived. The Cullens had the usual complement of cars at the house,
so instead of renting one, we took a taxi. Once it had dropped us off,
Edward popped out to the grocery store to get some food for Gianna and I
started pulling white cloths off of furniture. There were no beds in the
house, but I found a sofa that looked like it might be reasonably
comfortable for her, and I picked it up and moved it into the bedroom
that looked like it normally belonged to Rosalie and Emmett. While she
settled in, drowsy from the travel, I went out of her earshot to make a
call.

The phone rang once, twice, three times.

And then Billy Black picked up the phone.

* * * * *

"Billy, this is Bella," I said, not bothering to disguise my voice.

"*Bella?*" he asked. "Are you... what are you?"

"A vampire. The treaty, though, says "bite", not "turn", so I hope this
isn't going to cause any friction in the friendship between my family
and yours." This was wryly said -- "friendship" had never been the exact
word. The wolves of seven decades ago had considered vampires their
natural enemies, and the Cullens were barely suffered to live.

"Why are you calling me?" Billy demanded.

"Is anyone listening to this conversation on your end?" I inquired.

"No, Jacob is out with his friends..."

"Okay. Now, as you probably know, my family aren't the only vampires in
the world..."

I explained, as succicintly and comprehensibly as I could, the danger
that Aro posed. Billy listened in silence until I came to my conclusion:
"Assume for the sake of caution that he's got the more dangerous of the
two forms of mindreading. Right now, if it occurs to him that you exist,
he'll realize through Edward's memories that you're all inactive --
vulnerable. *One* vampire could get the drop on you and murder everyone
in La Push without anyone having time to activate; a handful more could
track down absent tribe members like Rachel and Rebecca and mop them up
too. The Volturi have over a dozen at their beck and call. They would
not consider it a big hassle to make you *extinct*, and they'd want to
do it, because if you ever wake up again, you'll be a threat to them."

"And what do you want to do about that?" Billy asked guardedly.

I said, "I want to wake you up."

* * * * *

Edward didn't take very long at the grocery store, and while I was in
the middle of coaxing Billy into giving me more information about
Quileute wolf legends as he knew them, I had to cut off so he wouldn't
hear anything. Edward brought the grocery bags in to Gianna, who began
to put their contents away according to an organizational system that
suited her; then he came outside again.

He walked up behind me, wrapped his arms around me, and kissed the back
of my neck. He was holding two sheets of paper. "I don't know what
you're up to," he told me in a low voice, "or what you're going to need,
and I know it's best that I don't know. And if you had to ask for
contacts or resources later, I'd have details, however vague -- so I made
you a list of everything I could think of." He handed me the list. He
had very small handwriting, and had filled five marginless columns on
both sides of each sheet with names, addresses, and phone numbers -- each
accompanied by notes on who their usual contact person was and what they
did. He'd also bought me an atlas of Quebec, which would see me a fair
part of the distance until I got where I needed to be.

I scanned both items quickly, memorizing everything on them without
regard for whether I expected any given entry to be useful later. The
atlas first, and then I handed it back to him; then the handwritten
note. It was quite a list: private investigators, black marketeers,
sources for forgeries, computer hackers, officials of various stripes in
the Cullens' pockets by bribery or intimidation who could cut through
assorted red tape and help cover up slips. They operated from dozens of
cities, scattered around the world but mostly concentrated in the
northern half of the United States. Once I'd seen it all, I shredded it,
tearing it up into confetti even a patient vampire couldn't reconstruct.
I let it scatter in the wind and then turned in Edward's arms to kiss
him. "Thank you," I murmured.

"I hope it helps. I hope you know what you're doing," he added wryly.

"Not really," I said. "But I know enough to think it's the best thing I
*can* do."

He didn't love the answer, but didn't press.

"I need to go," I said apologetically. "I'll be back -- uh -- later. You
have my number."

Edward handed me the keys to the car he'd taken shopping. I kissed him
goodbye and got behind the wheel.

* * * * *

I headed southwest and called Billy, confident that my brain wasn't
going to be overtaxed by driving and talking on the phone at the same
time.

"Sorry about that," I said when he picked up the phone. "For security
reasons," (I felt ridiculous saying that) "I need to keep everything out
of my husband's earshot. You were in the middle of telling me why I
*shouldn't* pick up Rachel from Spokane on my way to activate
werewolves, even though anyone who got into your house and looked at
your stuff could tell that she's your daughter and therefore carries the
gene and would be part of a complete extermination project, and even
though she's smack dab between me and La Push unlike her Hawaii-dwelling
twin."

Billy didn't answer me for a while, although I could hear him breathing.
Finally, he said, "Because the women never became wolves."

"Why's that?"

"They simply didn't have the magic," said Billy, which meant *I have no
idea*.

"Okay, let's think," I said, which meant *I'm going to think aloud so
you understand where my conclusions came from*. "We *do* know that
wolves are activated when they're young or not at all, right? How
young?"

"Under twenty-five," he said, "as far as I know."

"And in those days, did Quileute girls under twenty-five years of age
tend to wander around in places that might contain vampires to activate
them?" I asked. "Either before or after the tribe had a pack of
protectors capable of keeping such vampires far away from villages?" He
didn't answer, which I took to be a no. "Is it possible," I continued,
"that they just never had the opportunity to activate?"

"Perhaps," grumbled Billy.

"So it would seem that it at least *bears testing,*" I said, "for me to
pick up Rachel. If nothing else, a Volturi committee sent to destroy
your people isn't going to care if your stories say she can't activate.
They'll guess that she carries the gene anyway and could pass it on to a
son, or that the stories are wrong, or that she might think it's a
little funny that her entire family is dead and investigate a little too
closely. Just because she doesn't come home when you ask her to visit
doesn't mean she won't talk to me -- and I can prove most of what I have
to say, and get her where she has to go."

I was uncomfortably aware of how patronizing I was being, but this was
Billy's *daughter* I was trying to save, and he was being astoundingly
uncooperative. I went on: "The Volturi *do not care about human life.*
They kill people -- vampires, humans, European werewolves -- *all the
time*. On a daily basis for food. When they are annoyed or feel flouted
or need to put on a show. It would not come as *anything resembling a
surprise* if I learned that at least some of them do it for no reason
other than personal entertainment. Whether she can turn into a wolf or
not, Rachel isn't *safe* from them. They won't *ignore* her if they find
out you exist. She'll be as safe as I can make her if she activates, and
the next best thing if she's at least among a bunch of people who I
*can* activate. *Tell me where to find her, Billy.*"

He mumbled an address and a phone number.

"Thank you, Billy. I'll see you in about a day and a half." I flipped my
phone closed.

Rachel
======

I drove, and drove, and stopped for gas, and bought new maps, and drove.
I wished I could have taken a plane, but that would have left traces it
would be all too easy for inquisitive Volturi to track. I paid for my
purchases in cash, wearing sunglasses and stopping earlier than I needed
to when I hit an area with cloud cover or heavy shade. The car was nice
and fast but not visibly interesting, as far as humans' reactions
informed me. Unless Alice was looking at the wrong things at the wrong
time, I wasn't leaving easy evidence.

When it was a sensible hour for humans to be awake and attending to
their electronics, I called Rachel's number. She picked up on the first
ring but sounded tired. "Hello? Who is this?" she asked, predictably not
recognizing the number.

"It's Bella -- remember me?" I asked. We'd last played together when I'd
been ten and she'd been twelve; she probably wouldn't notice the change
in my voice. I didn't bother disguising it.

"Uh, Bella... Swan?"

"I actually just got married a couple weeks ago," I said. "It's Bella
Cullen now."

"Cullen? That name sounds kind of familiar." Rachel had gone to college
early, and rarely went home; she would never have encountered my family
during their most recent stay in Forks. But of course the name was known
in the stories she'd heard growing up. "Huh. Wow, you're what, two years
younger than me? That is *young*. Even Becky waited till she was
eighteen to get married. But congratulations. So, um, why are you
calling?"

Apparently Rebecca had started calling herself "Becky"; that was good to
know. "I'm going to be in the area in a few hours and I have something
awesome that I want to show you," I said.

"Uh... Bella, don't take this the wrong way, but if you're a missionary
or an Avon lady or something like that..."

"No, absolutely not. I'm not selling anything. I have no religion to
share with you. But if I tell you what I want to talk about when I'm not
physically present and capable of proving it, you'll never believe me.
Can I buy you..." I flicked my eyes to the clock, guessed my arrival
time. "Lunch? I'll be in Spokane at about eleven thirty. We can go
wherever you want and all you have to do is listen to me tell you a
really crazy story while you take gratuitous advantage of my wallet, and
then specify exactly what tricks you want me to do to prove what I will
tell you."

"Um, okay... do you know the seafood place four blocks from campus?"

"Give me the intersection and I'll find it. Do you want me to pick you
up, or meet you there?" I asked.

She named streets and said she'd meet me. "If this is a religion or a
sales pitch I am making you buy me lobster," she promised, and then she
hung up.

* * * * *

I bought an atlas outside Spokane, found the intersection, and was there
two minutes early, which left me enough time to find parking.
Fortunately, it was a cloudy day; I didn't have to take care to make
sure that the route between my spot and the restaurant was shaded. (I'd
bought an ugly, crushable, and broad-brimmed hat, and a pair of gloves
from a clearance rack, in Montana. That would have to do if I needed to
go into the sun. But for the time being they were stuffed into my
purse.) I popped fresh contact lenses into my eyes. They were just
barely tinging orange around the edges -- not close enough to any human
color to pass.

Rachel was there. In my computer, I'd had exactly three photos of my
childhood self with the Black twins, and that was the beginning and the
end of what I knew about what Rachel and Becky looked like. (Mercifully,
they were fraternal twins, and I'd labeled one of the pictures with
which was which.) But it wasn't hard, even with several years between
the present and our last photo op, for me to pick out the
nineteen-year-old Native American woman who looked like she was waiting
for someone.

"Rachel!" I called, going up to her at a plausibly human pace and
waving. "Hi! It's good to see you!"

She gave me an appraising look, that mix of aesthetic enjoyment and
simmering envy that reasonably pretty women sometimes gave supermodels
and vampires. "*Bella?*" she asked, incredulous. "Wow, you look great.
And..." She took a breath and got an embarrassed, repulsed look on her
face. "No offense, but you're kind of wearing a *lot* of perfume. I'd
tone it way down if I were you."

Come to think of it, Rachel didn't smell human-typical to me, either.
She was the least appetizing person with a heartbeat I'd encountered
since turning -- closer to the wolf I'd eaten for my first vampire meal
than to any humans. Probably this was just a feature of the species. A
race of werewolves that were historically the natural enemies of
vampires wouldn't think I smelled pleasantly of freesias and honey, and
I wouldn't react to one of them with the desire to approach more closely
and sink in my teeth.

Well, that meant I could probably activate her. "Sorry if it's bothering
you. Did I keep you waiting long?"

She shook her head. She had her hair just barely long enough to look
fluffy, and it bounced with the motion. "I just got here. Let's go sit
down."

The restaurant wasn't crowded, which was good -- I didn't have to attract
attention by asking the hostess for a more private table at which to
have this conversation. "You look tired," Rachel said. "Were you driving
through the night?"

"Yeah, I was," I said, not that this had to do with the darkness under
my eyes. "I'm pretty good at pulling all-nighters, it's just not good
for the looks."

"No, don't get me wrong, you really do look great, just like you could
use a nap," Rachel backpedaled. She scanned her menu with half her
attention -- the other half kept her glancing up at me repeatedly. She
definitely sensed that something was off. And she kept sniffing the air
uncomfortably. "And maybe you should take your nap on the beach on a
nice day. So, uh, I could kind of go for lobster even though you haven't
tried to sell me anything yet -- is that...? Or I could get the halibut,
that looks nice..."

"It's completely fine," I promised her. "Go ahead and get anything you
want. And if I try to get one penny out of your purse you can stab me
with a fork."

Rachel chuckled darkly and summoned the waiter. I ordered the halibut
she'd mentioned, in case she wanted some, and a glass of water. When
he'd gone to put in our orders, she asked, "So what's the crazy thing
you wanted to tell me so bad that you're buying me lobster?"

"You've probably heard most of it already," I said earnestly. "Do you
remember any of the stories from your tribe about..." I paused
dramatically, just for the hell of it. "Wolves?"

"Yeah, there's a bunch," Rachel replied. "Wolves, and spirit warriors,
and cold ones, and all that junk. Why, what about them?"

"Can I see your hand for a sec?" I asked, holding out mine.

"What, are you going to read my palm, or something?" she joked, but she
held out her hand. I held it just as though fortune-telling were what I
had in mind, but all I'd wanted was to let her notice my body
temperature. Her own was unusually warm. No one would send her to the
hospital if she popped a thermometer under her tongue, but she ran a bit
hot.

Rachel jerked her hand back, and I didn't try to stop her. Clutching at
her chilled hand with the other, she stared at me, eyes round with
shock. "Bella, I don't *believe* in cold ones," she said, with a vaguely
didactic tone that didn't match the fear on her face.

"You don't? Oh, okay, then," I said.

She blinked at me, put her hands in her lap, blinked again, and said, "I
really don't."

"That's fine," I repeated.

"Vampires don't exist," said Rachel.

"So I've been told," I said agreeably.

There was a silence. I smiled at her pleasantly, and she looked at me,
at all the telltale features. The pale skin. The dark circles under my
eyes; my eyes themselves, which were ringed with the faint lines of my
contacts. She inhaled shallowly, deliberately, detecting the "perfume".
Perhaps she was thinking about my voice, how clear and chiming I
sounded.

Our drinks came, my water and her iced tea. She clutched at her glass
and had a sip, almost spilling. There was no protocol in her memory for
what to do when a vampire took her out for lobster.

I took a swallow of water. Although Rachel didn't smell *tasty*, that
didn't shut down venom production -- if anything, it had gone up a bit,
perhaps in preparation for a fight. That, and there were the waiter and
the other diners. The air had some kick to it.

The food arrived.

"If you want any of this, you can have it," I said, gesturing at the
halibut and the sides accompanying it. "I'm not hungry."

"Bella, those stories are all fictional," Rachel said. "Imaginary. Made
up."

"That may be," I acknowledged. "On an entirely unrelated topic, did you
know that there are a lot of fictional stories in which the Earth is
populated by creatures called "humans"? I understand it's a popular
genre."

Rachel gaped at me. She didn't even touch her lobster.

* * * * *

I waited patiently, and eventually the steam wafting up from her plate
overrode her shock. She started dipping bites of crustacean into butter
and mechanically chewing them. But except for the minimum attention to
keep lobster juice from dribbling down her front, she was focused on me.

"Your eyes," she observed, a quarter of the way through her plate, "are
brown."

"I'm wearing contact lenses," I told her, and fished the box out of my
purse to show her.

She looked at the box of cosmetic lenses like it was a horrible spider,
and started eating faster. She finished all of the easily accessible
lobster, although delicate work with the pick could have gotten more out
of the shell. "You said *Cullen*, right?" she asked, starting on her
asparagus.

"That's my married name, yes," I replied. "My husband's name is Edward."

"And how old is *Edward*?" asked Rachel, pronouncing the name with some
distaste.

"Older than I am. Looks remarkably well-preserved, though," I told her.
She swiped one of my halibut fillets as I'd invited her to do and
plunked it into the tartar sauce it had come with. "Did you have
breakfast?" I asked.

"Yeah, I did, I'm just... really hungry all of a sudden..." muttered
Rachel, sounding as puzzled by her appetite as I was. She ate the fish
and took another piece. From across the table, I thought the warmth
emanating from her was getting hotter...

I didn't have any information to the effect that activation came with
enhanced appetite. Perhaps it had never seemed important to mention it
next to the "turn into a giant wolf" part. Or she was just hungry for no
particular reason. It seemed very *fast*.

But better to err on the side of caution.

I reached into my purse, peeled out a hundred dollar bill, and laid it
on the table. "Rachel, we need to get out of here now."

"Huh?"

"We are in the middle of Spokane and you are exhibiting a peculiar
symptom after having spent some time hanging out with... me," I said.
"Let's *stop* being in the middle of Spokane. Right now."

Rachel looked at me like she'd been punched in the stomach. Like *I* had
punched her in the stomach, maybe -- shocked, hating that she believed
but believing anyway, she couldn't have been more distraught if she'd
learned that her father wasn't or that her twin was dead or something
equally horrible.

I failed to check one twist of guilt, but the need to *get her someplace
safe* was stronger than the need to apologize for what I had already
done, and it wouldn't *kill* her --

"Rachel, *we need to go,*" I said. And finally, she got to her feet,
looking woozy. She managed to follow me to my car without my having to
carry her, and sat in the passenger seat without even looking at the
seatbelt. I didn't bring up her bad safety habit, just pulled out and
wove through traffic as fast as I could. I ran four red lights, taking
I-90 back the way I'd come at speeds even Edward would approve of.
Rachel shook in her seat, sweating, but not transforming. Maybe the
process took a while and she was only in the beginning stages.

I crossed the state line into Idaho and drove into the national forest,
where I pulled over and abandoned the car. I pulled Rachel by the hand
into the trees, but she stumbled, and I was desperate to get her out of
sight. Keeping my ears open for hikers or forest rangers, I picked her
up and fled into the deep woods.

* * * * *

I found a place that didn't look or smell like humans had visited it
much -- at least since the last rain, which didn't mean much, but it was
something. Rachel looked sick, but not deathly ill. Her heart was
beating fast, but not faster than healthy ones beat under stress. She
was breathing oddly, but not more oddly than she had when she'd only
been trying to avoid my "perfume". She sat on the ground cross-legged
and held onto her ankles, looking vacantly at a tree.

"How do you feel?" I asked, after we'd been in the chosen spot for two
minutes without speaking.

"I had a class this afternoon," she said faintly.

"You take the summer semester?"

"Don't like going home," she said. "Reminds me of Mom..."

I'd known that Billy's wife was dead, although for some reason I'd never
processed the translation that his children were motherless. "How do you
feel?" I asked again.

"Wrong. Too -- too something. Alone," Rachel said.

"I'm right here."

"I know you are," she snapped. "You asked me how I *felt* and I'm
*telling* you, not about whether I knew you were *there*!"

"Well, what do you mean, *alone*?"

"It's -- it's like -- It's the way I always thought I'd feel if something
happened to Becky," she whispered. "In stories, not the true stories,
other ones, there are magical twins who know how each other are feeling,
know if anything's gone wrong -- and we don't have that, once Becky broke
her arm falling down the stairs and I was out climbing trees and didn't
know until an hour later. I didn't feel anything. But I pretended I did
and this is how I pretended it would feel if she *died*," Rachel whined.
The words came out of her in an unfiltered rush.

"If you tell me her number, I'll call her right now and make sure she's
all right," I offered softly.

"Are you going to do this to her *too*?" snarled Rachel. "What's *wrong*
with you? You knew this would happen, didn't you? *Bella, what the hell,
I had a god damn class this afternoon.*"

"There are other vampires," I said quietly. "The last time they found
out about a species of werewolves, they wiped them out. I wanted you to
be able to defend yourselves. As far as I know, Becky is alive. I want
her to stay that way, and you, and your brother, and everyone else I can
get to."

"Your solution to the existence of vampires who don't like werewolves is
to *create werewolves*?" Rachel demanded incredulously. The excess heat
was really pouring out of her; I definitely wasn't imagining it. It was
like being next to an open oven.

I repeated my spiel about how little it would matter to the Volturi if
she were active or not. Rachel listened, but didn't look impressed. She
just glared stonily at me when I ran out of disparaging things to say
about typical vampire ethics and the lack of protection being inactive
would offer her. I tacked on, "I hear that when you shapeshift
regularly, you won't age. You can live forever."

"Like *this?*" she asked miserably. "You want me to live forever feeling
like I've got a few big holes in me?"

"Maybe it'll go away when you properly transform," I said encouragingly.
"Or when there are more wolves. I think you're supposed to come in
packs; that could be all it is, that you don't have a pack yet."

She whined and slumped forward. "Leave me alone."

"I don't think that's a good idea -- you might be disoriented when you
transform, or it might take a long time and I might have to bring you
food, or -"

"I said leave me alone!" howled Rachel, and then she exploded.

* * * * *

The transformation was insanely fast. Only vampiric visual processing
let me catch any detail. Rachel disappeared in a cloud of cream-white
fur, which whooshed outward for a radius of a couple yards in all
directions. Shreds of cloth were forced away from her, leaving tatters
of her clothes dangling from nearby twigs and strewn on the ground. The
fur pulled in as though vacuumed, farther some places than others, and
formed the shape of a wolf. But no ordinary wolf: she was at least six
or seven times the size of the Eurasian one I'd eaten in Norway. She was
the size of a bear -- a *large* bear.

Too fast for me react, she shot a paw forward and clobbered me across
the face.

Deep gashes opened across my cheeks; my right eye was put out of
commission and my field of vision shrank by a third, losing depth. Pain
sliced through astonishment --

Rachel was snarling and pulling her foot back, and my mind was a war
zone between the urge to kill her and the instinct to flee. Between the
wounds and the shock and the fact that she smelled much more strongly
than she had, smelled *dangerous*, like an *enemy*, there was no room
for me to wonder if she could be calmed down. If she only planned to hit
me once. If she'd actually intended to do it at all.

I bolted.

And Rachel gave chase, and *she was faster than me* -- but even with one
eye unresponsive, I was still smaller, nimbler, better able to get
through the trees without running into them. I heard small branches snap
off in her coat as she pursued me. They slowed her down enough that I
was able to keep ahead of her.

I hadn't even picked a direction when I'd taken off. Nine seconds into
the chase I recovered a little presence of mind, added up all the clues
about our location, veered right, and led her deeper into the woods --
the last thing I needed was to encourage her towards downtown Spokane.
She followed, crashing through brush and growling.

Gradually, as the cuts in my face pulled themselves closed, my ability
to think crept back to me. At first I only applied this to running away
more effectively: I could turn on a dime even at top speed. She had a
wider turn radius and more weight to add inertia, so I zigzagged and she
fell behind a little at a time. I could afford to quit pumping one arm
and prod my damaged eye. It was healing too, although the vision hadn't
started to return. I reminded myself that vampire venom was supposedly
the only thing that would leave a scar.

I started yelling her name, over and over. "Rachel! *Rachel!*" I
hollered at her. I thought I heard her slow a little, and though I
didn't let up on my own pace, I added, "Calm down!"

She slowed to -- relatively speaking -- a jog. I dared to look over my
shoulder, and somehow she appeared puzzled, with liquidy black eyes
standing out in confusion from her eggshell-colored fur.

Indistinct light made it through my hurt eye as it glued some of its
connections back together. I risked halting my run, and instead I
scrabbled my way up a tree. Rachel didn't look like she'd be able to
climb, and I could fling myself to another treetop without being too
easy to follow, if she became hostile again or tried to knock over my
perch.

She slowed to a brisk trot, and approached my tree. She paced around it,
sniffing, and finally sat.

"Are you okay?" I asked her. She was very fluffy. If she'd been a lot
smaller and less toothy, she'd have made a popular stuffed animal. I
began to be able to see the edges of shapes with my right eye.

She scratched a branch out of the fur on her neck with one hind leg and
made a whining noise.

"...Can you *talk*?" I asked her, adjusting my hold on the branch I
clung to.

Ponderously, she shook her head from side to side. She made a little
grumbling sound.

"Then I guess I can't very well ask you why you swatted me," I said. "Or
much of anything. I suppose I could make guesses, and if I can't figure
it out, we can go through the alphabet and you can spell it?" She made a
laugh-like snorting sound, and her tail wagged once.

"Okay, nod or shake your head for the usual reasons, and, uh, bark at me
if it's close but partly wrong or incomplete?" I suggested. She nodded,
and so I started guessing. "Do I smell revolting? Like something you've
instinctively got to fight?"

She nodded again, emphatically, then stuck out her tongue in a
remarkably humanlike expression of disgust.

"So it helps that I'm up a tree, I'm guessing? Harder to smell me from
up here?" She nodded once more, repeated the laughing sound. "Is that
the only reason you attacked me?" It wasn't. "Are you pissed off that I
activated you?" She was, but that wasn't everything. "Still feel like
you've got a few big holes in you?" She barked.

My vision resolved to its normal acuity in the injured eye, and I
blinked twice. My contact lens from that eye was completely gone, and
the other was about halfway through dissolving; I plucked it out and
flicked it away, not in Rachel's direction. "I really didn't expect you
to transform that fast," I said apologetically. "I was told it was a
gradual sort of thing -- I figured I'd be able to drive you all the way
to La Push before anything happened."

Rachel sat back on her haunches and put one forepaw on top of the other
in the air. Trying to mime something? "Do you think it's because I
touched your hand?" I guessed. "That could be it, could speed things
up." She nodded. The last of the pain in my face faded, everything
having knitted to its proper smoothness.

My phone rang.

* * * * *

I apologized to Rachel, and she waved a paw as though to graciously
permit me to take the call. It was Alice. I held the phone to my ear.

"Bella?" she asked, panicked. "Is that you? Are you okay?"

"I'm fine, Alice. What is it?" I asked.

"What the hell happened just now?" she asked. "I can't see you *at
all*."

"Really?" I asked. "I'm fine, I promise. You didn't panic Edward about
this or anything, did you?"

"No, I tried you first, I'm glad you're okay -- what *happened*?"

Seventy years before, Alice hadn't been part of the Cullen family...

"Maybe it's a new development of my power," I suggested. Blatant lie. I
didn't think it was any such thing. The timing was too convenient for it
to be anything but Rachel. "You can't see me at *all*?" I decided that
after I hung up the phone, I'd ask Rachel to stay put and run a mile or
so away, then back.

"Not a bit -- no, wait, I'm getting something now. You'll be in the
woods, somewhere... It's just a flash, you're running and stopping and
turning around and disappearing again."

"I guess it doesn't work consistently, at least not yet," I said. "I'm
not *trying* to be invisible to you too, Alice, promise. But I'm okay
and you shouldn't panic or worry anyone else."

"Okay," Alice said uncomfortably. "Wait, now even that flash has gone!"

"I'm fine, Alice," I told her again. "I have to go." Reluctantly, she
bade me goodbye and I put the phone back in my pocket.

"Sorry about that,"I said to Rachel. "I think your species is invisible
to my psychic sister."

Rachel uttered another wolfy laugh. Then, abruptly, her form contracted
and she was human-shaped again, standing naked in the middle of the
woods. "Ack!" she yelped.

"Hey, you did it!" I said approvingly. "Uh, I packed some clothes,
they're in the car -- you're taller than me, but better than nothing
until we can get you to your place?"

"I don't think I had better go home, or to a store. What if I phase
again?" Rachel asked. "I don't have it under control, at least not
now..."

"Okay, fair enough," I said. "I can pick up some things for you. What do
you need?" She gave me a rundown of how to find her room and what she
wanted from it, and -- given that she seemed liable to go through a lot
of clothes -- a summary of new items she wanted purchased. I told her my
best estimate of how long the two-way trip, the pickup, and the shopping
would take all together, and she went on a small rant about how she
wanted to be able to do her own shopping, and how this was stupid and
didn't make sense, and how she'd had a *class*. Mid-sentence, she
"phased" back, disintegrating the plant she'd been using for cover and
reattaining her puffy cloud of fur. She snorted.

"I'm going to stay up in the trees, just to be on the safe side," I told
her. "Follow me to my car -- but stay back from the road, I don't think
we want reports of polar bears flying around -- and I'll get you an
outfit for when you change back again, and then I'll drive into town and
get you your things." She whined, but followed.

When we got to the clearing where she'd originally transformed, she
barked at me several times and started sniffing around. I watched from
the trees rather than jumping down or continuing to my car. Eventually,
she found her purse. The strap had been destroyed, and it hadn't done
much good to the rest of it to be thrown into a tree at such high speed.
Rachel growled at it, but then picked it up in her teeth and flung it in
my general direction.

I caught it, and looked inside to see what she was trying to show or
give me. It contained a wallet, a phone, her class schedule, keys, gum,
a pen, two band-aids, a package of tissues, and similar purse-dwelling
items. "Is it just the keys you wanted me to have?" I asked, rattling
them.

She shook her head, barking. "I don't know what you want me to do with
this," I said. "Uh, does it start with an A...?"

Spelling in this way was tedious, but eventually she got me to spell
"TELREGESTARIMDROPINGSUMMRCLASES". I wasn't sure if she normally had bad
spelling or just found it difficult to keep track of letters the way we
were communicating -- or deliberately skipped some for efficiency
reasons. The schedule was probably necessary to give credibility to the
notion that I was entrusted with this task. "Okay, I'll stop at the
university and take care of that," I told her. "I'll tell them you're
deathly and contagiously ill and can't sign things yourself, how's
that?" She nodded approvingly.

I swung myself from tree to tree and finally reached my car.
Fortunately, it hadn't been towed or vandalized. In the trunk, I found
my suitcase where I'd left it, and took out an outfit that might fit
Rachel in spite of her being half a foot taller than me. I left it in a
bush well out of human sight from the street, called her towards it so
she could find the clothes, and then got in my car to make the trip.

* * * * *

Rachel's roommates weren't home, so I didn't have to endure awkward
explanations while I went through her stuff and got what she'd asked
for. I did leave a note on her door so they wouldn't think she'd been
robbed -- "Rachel is very sick & asked me to get her stuff. Call her dad
to confirm if you want.". I added Billy's phone number.

Her place wasn't far from campus, and I found the registrar's office.
They gave me trouble about dropping her classes for her, and I found it
necessary to threaten them with the prospect of having to clean up vomit
if Rachel were obliged to come in in person. Yes, I said, she was
contagious; yes, she would be too sick for too long to catch up in her
classes; yes, they could send her e-mails to get this information
directly if they wanted but she might not get back to them for a while
because it's hard to type while doubled over with stomach cramps and
trying to keep toast down. Eventually they put in the drop requests,
noting for me that it would be a hassle but not impossible for Rachel to
get her enrollments back if she got better.

I hit up the nearest clothing store and got some of everything Rachel
had described, walking out with enough bags that some people were
looking at me funny for bringing them to my car without stumbling.

When I got back to the forest, Rachel had managed to turn herself
human-shaped again and was wearing the clothes I'd loaned her. They
didn't fit well -- she was much taller than I was, and had ropy muscle
where I had undefined smoothness. In fact, I almost thought she might
have grown over the past several hours. I wasn't sure if it was my
imagination, an illusion of the ill-fitting clothes, or a werewolf
thing; I didn't think she'd know either, so I didn't ask.

"I don't think we'd better put you in the car," I said consideringly. "I
don't care about it, but I'm not sure what it'd do to you if you phased
inside it -- and it'd be just about the most conspicuous thing you could
do, if there were anybody else on the road."

Rachel nodded, tight-lipped. "So, what, then? Do I live in this forest
forever?"

"I originally intended to bring you to La Push," I reminded her.
"Remember, you're supposed to come in packs. That's where you'll find
the rest of yours -- I strongly suspect that it'll fill in a few of those
big holes. If your school won't let you finish your degree long
distance, I'll personally pay your tuition someplace that will. Or I
might be able to get rid of the threat to your species sooner than I
think I will, and then as soon as you've got your shifting under control
you can get back normally."

"Stop saying "your species"," said Rachel. "I'm a human being."

I blinked. "What would you like me to call the group of people who, like
you, can turn into giant wolves, then?"

"We can be werewolves, but I'm still human," she insisted. "*My* heart
is still beating."

"Okay, but if you aren't a species of werewolves, what are you? It's not
like you have a disease, or registered as a member of the Werewolf
Party."

"A tribe, I guess," she said, shrugging.

"But not every Quileute's going to be able to shapeshift, unless your
dad was wrong about the age maximum. Even ones who are young enough
might not have the right gene."

"Look, whatever, just -- I'm human. Period," said Rachel, folding her
arms, and then she destroyed the borrowed clothes in a burst of fur.

"This," I said, "is going to be a challenge."

* * * * *

I went to a public library, got on the Internet, and found someone
selling a horse trailer. The car I was using had a hitch, although it
didn't look like it had been there originally -- Rosalie must have added
it for some reason. I bought the trailer, and a futon to lay on the
bottom and make it comfortable and a curtain to prevent anyone from
seeing inside, and Rachel traveled in there. It was cramped and dark,
but not in danger of bursting open if she phased. She grumbled, and then
halfway through grumbling turned into a wolf, but got in and let me
close it up after her.

Throughout the trip I could hear and feel her phasing back and forth --
the soft *whoosh* and the way it changed the weight of the vehicle were
very distinctive. I called Billy on the way -- he answered on the first
ring. Waiting anxiously by the phone?

"Hey, Billy," I said. "Rachel and I are on our way. Your old stories are
wrong."

There was a silence, and then a husky whisper: "She's changed, then?"

"Yep. And took a swipe at me, but I'm all better now and she hasn't been
obviously out of control since, except she keeps shifting back and forth
at random. Our guess is that it happened so fast because I touched her
hand -- but that's good, now I can just go down a line and give everyone
a high-five and we'll be all set. I want to fly Becky in from Hawaii,
though. We'll probably have to bring her husband into the loop."

"The treaty still stands, and doesn't allow you on our land," Billy
said. "You can't come here to activate anyone."

"Someday, I will need to actually read that thing," I said. "Doesn't it
allow any provision for exceptions?"

"Well... yes," he said. "The chief of the tribe was specified to have
the authority to allow Cullens on the reservation."

"And who is that?" Talking to Billy was like pulling teeth -- he made me
work for every piece of information, and it left me impatient.

"That was seventy years ago. Now we are goverened by a council of
equals... except..."

"Except?" I insisted. "Come on, talk to me, please."

He sighed heavily. "Tribal law says that the alpha of the pack is the
chief."

"So I guess that's Rachel, until there's more wolves? Or will she get to
stay alpha?" I asked.

"I'm not sure. I told you that women never transformed before," said
Billy.

"Aren't you *on* the council?" That much I knew from talking to Charlie.
"You can probably hazard a reasonable guess about how tribal law *you*
interpret applies to *your* daughter."

He *harrumphed* to himself. "Jacob..."

"He's a child," I said.

"He's not that much younger than you."

"I'm going to be seventeen forever. I can be seventeen and a kid
forever, or I can be seventeen and an adult forever. I pick the latter.
Jacob's what, fifteen? And still growing. He can be a kid without it
being an eternal sentence."

"*You* haven't finished high school either."

"I'll borrow Rosalie's notes and textbooks from senior year sometime and
memorize everything in them," I replied. "I'll probably go to college
once or twice or thirty times when things have calmed down in my life a
bit. Anyway, is there any reason to prefer Jacob as chief over Rachel,
or maybe joint chiefhood between the twins, other than the fact that
Jacob is a *boy*?" Billy didn't answer me, so I took that as a *no*.
"Rachel was first," I said. "If for some reason she wants to hand over
being-in-charge-ness to someone else that's her business. If, due to
some mystical mojo, the being-in-charge-ness visibly floats to Jacob or
whoever's next in line for it once there are more wolves, well, I don't
think it's very efficient to argue with mystical mojo when there's so
much else to do. But if tribal law says pack alpha's the chief, and
Rachel's a one-girl pack, that says to me that she's chief *now*."

"You are a very exasperating girl," Billy informed me.

"You are *welcome* for my thinking of your family's safety when I could
have just lived in idyll with my husband in our fairytale cottage in
Norway and forgotten you existed," I said brightly. "You are *welcome*
for my caring about fairness to *all* of your children and not just the
one who has chromosomes traditionally associated with nifty magic."

Billy didn't say anything.

"I'm going to drive first to the Cullen house in Forks," I told him.
"Then once she's capable of talking I'll ask Chief Rachel for permission
to go on the tribe's land. If she says yes, you'll see me soon. If she
says no, I'll invite everybody who might be able to activate over for a
little turning-into-giant-wolves party and hope none of them take off my
head with an energetic swat. You are *welcome* for my willingness to put
up with newly awakened werewolves clawing chunks out of me in exchange
for your and their safety."

I was being obnoxious, and I knew it -- maybe there was someone who
pushed my buttons less than Billy who knew just as much, that I could
talk to instead. Rachel was fine; maybe once she'd gotten accustomed to
her powers and re-read all the old legends she could be my contact
person among the Quileutes.

"Oh -- and don't tell my father that I'm in town, please," I added. "I've
been keeping in touch with him by phone. But I look different, even with
contact lenses in, and he'd need an explanation. I am going to try to
find a way to initiate him into the mysteries, but I want to do it
carefully and with certain sorts of help."

"I'm not going to tell him," said Billy darkly. Maybe he thought Charlie
would be disappointed in me or something? I didn't ask; I didn't want to
extract another six unhelpful sentences out of the man one at a time
before learning his motives. I did trust him to keep my father in the
dark when he said he would, and that was all I really needed.

* * * * *

I drove up to the Cullen house. It was fuzzily familiar, like everything
I'd seen only while human. I parked the car in front of the house
because I lacked a remote for the garage. Then I let Rachel out of the
trailer.

She walked out bipedally, wincing as she inhaled. "Pah, you really do
smell pretty awful -- I mean it's not your fault, I guess it's a vampire
thing, but it's like it's burning my nose."

"If you have any clever ideas for what I can do to stink less, let me
know," I said. "I called your dad on the way. He said that the alpha of
the werewolf pack is the chief of the tribe. Cool, huh?"

"Wait, what? We actually have werewolf-based laws on who's chief?" asked
Rachel incredulously. "That's really bizarre. I don't want to be chief
anyway, I don't like coming home, that's *why I took summer classes*..."

"I'm sure you'll have the hang of phasing by the time the fall semester
rolls around," I said. "This is the best place for you to be until then,
though. But I don't see why you should have to live at La Push itself if
you don't want to. You can use this house if you want." I waved at the
family home, assuming I was as entitled as anyone to dictate its use
while it stood empty. The property was surely in Carlisle's name, but
the family moved its resources around between members freely. It had
come in very handy for me -- when I'd wanted Ilario turned, for instance,
the coven had pulled together to arrange that, even though most of them
had no personal stake in his welfare. Eventually someone else would need
something accomplished for which I'd be useful and I'd step in. In the
meantime, there was a house.

Rachel looked at the house, then went up and tried the door. It wasn't
locked. Without anyone to monitor the place, there was no way a lock
would stop even a human thief. (There was a security system, but not one
that connected to an agency and beeped when the door opened -- vampire
senses beat anything like that, and vampire power beat any armed goons
such companies sent out. When the place was devoid of inhabitants, it
contained expensive furniture but nothing readily stealable, and we
tended to have houses too far out in the wilderness to be popular
targets for vandalism.)

"It smells like vampires in here," announced Rachel loudly.

"Really, still? We've been away for weeks now."

She nodded, and then phased -- just her nose was through the door, so she
didn't injure the frame in so doing. She backed off the patio and
flopped down onto the lawn, rolling her eyes.

I couldn't resist: "You're so *fluffy,*" I told her.

A wolfy laugh and a wag of a tail -- and she was a naked girl again. I
fetched her an outfit. "Maybe you should take up wearing togas or
something, that might survive a shift," I proposed. "I'm not going to
break the bank buying you clothes, and it's the least I can do, but
there'd be fewer scraps of fabric to pick up."

"We'll see how long it takes," she said, pulling on the clothes. "I was
trying to practice on the way -- I *think* I got from regular to wolf on
purpose once but it could have been a coincidence."

"Nice," I said. "So here's the thing about you being chief..."

I explained the treaty -- or what I knew of it -- and that I needed
Rachel's permission to go onto Quileute land.

"You really think that more wolves will fix the... holes?" she asked, a
forlorn expression creeping onto her face. She'd been able to act rather
*impressively* normal, considering, but the discomfort was apparently
still there.

"That's my best guess," I said. "I'd also like you to give me the
go-ahead to fly Becky in and activate her. Even if she wants to go on
living in Hawaii once she's been brought up to speed, she'll be safer
with the ability to turn giant and toothy."

"Who put those Volturi leeches in charge, anyway?" growled Rachel, and
then she phased, still growling.

"They put themselves in charge, I think. They have some very powerful
allies. I'm working on it, though," I promised her. "So is it okay with
you if I visit the reservation?" She nodded. "And if I fly Becky -- and
her husband if she wants to bring him -- up here?" She nodded again.

"Well," I said, "I think we can avoid being seen if we go this way..." I
pointed. We ran.

* * * * *

Rachel phased less than a minute into the trip. "I can double back and
get you some towels or something from the house," I offered. "People are
probably going to come have a look at you, and it'd be faster than
getting into an entire outfit."

"Right, that's good," she said, and then she took a deep breath -- either
to psych herself up or to get a good whiff of me, I couldn't tell -- and
popped into wolf form, probably deliberately.

I fetched two towels -- most of the things like that had been packed, but
there were a few left in the bathroom on the top floor. I also detached
a curtain that I vaguely remembered Rosalie disliking and brought that,
and picked up all the bags of clothes and the ones I'd gotten from her
place.

Rachel was human-shaped again when I got back to her. "I think I've
*almost* got the hang of this," she said. "It helped that I sort of knew
it was coming before it happened. I can only imagine trying to check
myself into a mental hospital if one day I'd walked downwind of a random
vampire and transformed a week later having no idea what was going on."

"Yeah," I laughed. "Want these now, or are you trying to phase back?" I
held out a bag.

"Trying to phase back -- or I will when I'm done talking. I feel...
really, *really* full of energy. I actually don't think I'd get *tired*
if I just walked to the rez like this. Maybe not if I walked all the way
back to Spokane. But it's faster on four legs." She paused. "I'm *glad*
that you are a girl. And married and everything. This would be super
awkward otherwise."

"No kidding," I said. "Just another reason why it's good I started with
you and not Jacob."

"Oh, lord, Jacob," moaned Rachel. "He's got the gene if I do, doesn't
he? Ugh. Little brothers. Be glad you're an only child... Half the pack
is going to be boys."

"You're Alpha," I pointed out. "You can boss them around. Tell them to
turn around and stare at a tree." I wanted her to like being a wolf, if
possible. Her safety was the *first* reason I wanted her activated -- her
possible use as an ally in a fight with the Volturi, if it came to that,
was my second. If she resented me, it would be harder to secure her
help.

"Hm," she said speculatively. "Maybe it's worth being chief just to make
my brother do what I say occasionally." She didn't sound serious, so I
laughed, and she smiled at me. "Okay. Trying to go wolf now."

"Wait a sec," I said, and she glanced at me curiously. "Based on who'd
be descended from past werewolves, what kind of pack size do you think
we're looking at? And how do you want to handle telling and activating
them? I mean, no hard feelings, but you tried to take my face off -- I'd
rather avoid situations where anybody will succeed at that with me or a
-- non-magical person. I like having a face. And you know better than I
do what might have kept you calm to start out."

"Let me think," she said. "There's Jake, he's fifteen now, the
Clearwater kids are eighteen and thirteen..." She went through more
names, coming up with a couple dozen Quileutes between twelve and
twenty-five who she'd expect to have the gene. "I'm not sure if you
should activate the really young ones, though," she added. "I mean, they
kinda shouldn't be getting into any fights. And if this is going to be a
*thing* you'd need to make another trip in some years to activate the
ones who are really young now anyway."

"You're the boss of them," I reminded her. "They can still stay home and
play video games instead of trying to kill bad vampires even if they're
activated."

"I guess. Now I feel like maybe I should be worrying about parental
consent or something."

"How's this for a plan," I said. "I hang back in the middle of the
woods. You go in -- on two feet, if you can hang onto it, and you're
getting better at it all the time. You talk to anybody you need to talk
to, get any permission you need -- and I just stay put and shake hands
with whoever you bring me and then you take them someplace else before
they go *floof*." I added a gesture to symbolize the explosion of fur
that was the human-to-wolf transition. "All at your discretion about who
knows what and who I meet. You're handling everything *really* well and
you know everybody there better than I do -- and you can make judgment
calls in person without accidentally floofing *everybody floofable* just
by being there, like I would."

Rachel giggled manically at the term of art "floof". "That sounds good,"
she acknowledged. "And after that's dealt with I'll call Becky and see
if I can get her to come up. Plane tickets are expensive from Hawaii,
though..."

"I've got it covered," I told her. "Don't worry about that or anything
else that can be solved by throwing money at it. I have a psychic
sister, remember? She can't see *you*, but you aren't the CFO of a
publicly trading corporation, either."

Rachel laughed again. "Okay. So I guess I should get dressed and see if
I can avoid floofing for a while, instead of running there."

"Up to you, Chief," I teased, and she snickered. I handed over the
clothes.

"Keep cracking jokes," she added. "I think it helps -- if I'm right about
how it seems to work, I go like this when I think things are funny and I
go wolf when I'm pissed off, even a little."

I obliged as best I could, although I hadn't read any joke books since
turning, and most of the material I could produce on demand without
situational prompting was Emmett's brand of off-color insinuation.
Accompanied by anecdotes for context, this seemed to suit Rachel well
enough, and she didn't burst out of her khakis.

Rachel was reasonably familiar with the woods around the reservation,
and pointed out where she wanted me to wait before I'd even caught the
scent of humans other than her. I stood by the landmark rock she'd
indicated. "Oh, and Rachel," I called after her.

"What?" she asked.

"If there's anybody who you aren't sure about having the gene, but who
you'd want to activate if they did, you may as well bring them by. I'll
be able to tell by smell without having to give anything away except the
part where I'm a weird girl standing in the woods waiting for you to
introduce me to people."

"I smell funny to you, too?" she asked, sounding nonplussed. "Huh. Okay.
I think I thought of most everybody, though. Although I guess there've
been some rumors about the Calls..."

"I don't know the Calls, but it doesn't cost me anything to shake hands
with them."

"Just the one. It'd be the son, not the mom. Nobody knows who his dad is
-- she showed up from the Makah reservation, pregnant, people assumed
she'd left the father there but she never got child support or talked
about a dead lover or anything. So I'll bring her kid -- last, though.
He's Jacob's age, I think they're friends." I nodded. "Anyway," she
said, "if anybody changes faster than I did and goes for you before I
get them where I have picked out, lead them that way -- there's a sharp
dropoff, not that it'd be hard to get out of, but it'll at least provide
a clear border. I don't want some fifteen-year-old racing into the
village without thinking and taking his mom's arm off because she
grounded him or something. And you can get around in the trees pretty
good -- well enough that you'd be tricky to catch, if you keep your wits
about you."

I nodded again, and she turned and walked out to retrieve her packmates,
one at a time.

* * * * *

She brought Jacob first. I heard them talking a mile away -- he was
incredulous that she was even *there*, let alone claiming to be a
werewolf. He was also having trouble keeping up with her long, tireless
strides.

When they reached my rock, he was saying, "Raych, if this is some kind
of joke... uh..." He stared at me. It didn't look like he recognized me.
His hair was very long. I wondered suddenly if Rachel's fluffy coat was
related to her fluffy haircut. If so, Jacob was going to need to visit
the barber or he'd look like a cross between a wolf and a mop.

"Hey, Jacob," I said.

"Do... I... know you?" I hadn't put any contacts in; my eyes were their
brilliantly crimson selves, albeit with the encroaching orange at the
border of the iris. And of course my face was too symmetrical and
smoothly planed to belong to my human past.

"We've met," I said. "I'm Bella."

"Bel- Charlie's kid?" He gaped.

"The same," I said. "I'd appreciate it if you didn't tell him I was
here, though. He's not informed of... things."

"*Things* -- is that what you call it?" he spluttered. Rachel bristled.

"Sure, why not? Come, join us, be a Thing," I said, hoping to crack her
up and delay the need for a new outfit. She smirked and didn't phase. I
held out one white hand to Jacob. There was a long pause.

"Jake, kiddo, you can smell her from where you are, right? You're gonna
activate whether you touch her or not, this just speeds it up so I can
stash you in the ravine and go get Leah," Rachel said.

Her brother stared at me with horrified eyes. I looked back as benignly
as I could, still holding my arm forth -- it wasn't going to get tired or
anything. Eventually he reached out, touched one knuckle with one
fingertip, and pulled back as though burned. "You're *cold*," he said.

"If you're trying to tempt me into saying you're hot, it's not going to
work," I replied. *Keep Rachel laughing.* She did, a little, although
she looked nervous once Jacob had touched my hand.

"Eheheh," said Jacob, flicking his eyes to his sister. They walked
towards the ravine, Jacob occasionally looking over his shoulder to
throw me incredulous glances.

I could hear all the way to the ravine, and I listened as Jacob
complained incredulously of the shivers -- but not, interestingly, of the
emotional discomfort Rachel had described. It took him almost forty
minutes to shift, going by when I started to hear barking. Two voices
yelped and yowled at each other -- so at some point she'd phased too. The
"floof" noise was too soft to carry that far, so I didn't know when.

I didn't hear signs of fighting; there were no snarls or pained howling.
I waited for her to return, amusing myself by snapping a chunk of rock
off of the boulder I stood near and inexpertly sculpting it into a
little replica of wolf-Rachel with my fingertips.

I was just scratching in the fur on the tail when the white wolf trotted
back. She looked *happy*. I blinked at her curiously, and held out a bag
of clothes.

Very deliberately, or so it seemed to me, she phased and accepted the
proferred bag. "Did you know we're *telepathic*?" she asked me. Then she
furrowed her brow, puzzled at something. "...In wolf form?" she added,
apparently having just noticed the absence of her newfound power.

"I didn't," I said. "Big holes in you all sewn up?"

"Yup!" she replied. If she'd had a tail at that moment it would've
wagged. "All gone. Although it is sure weird sharing my head with my
little brother." She shook her head, laughing softly. "So I guess I'm
the only one who ever has to live with that. I'm half tempted to stop
here, just the two of us -- but Leah'll think this is cool, I bet. And
her fiancé is on my list too, and her brother, she'll want to bring them
in. Jake filled me in on that. Hope Leah and Sam don't saturate the
mental soup with too much *mush*." She paused. "No pun intended. Anyway,
I'm going to go get her. Hey, neat little statue. Is that me?"

"Who else would it be? I don't know what Jacob looks like when he's
wolfy."

"Sorta rust-colored, and my god, his fur, it's so long!" Rachel said.
"Not as big as me, at least not yet, but he's a kid, he'll grow. I told
him to hang out in the ravine and then if he phases back quick enough,
he can coach Leah and so on, and I can just keep making trips instead of
hanging out through the whole process every time. I'll want those towels
and the curtain, though."

"Sure thing," I said. And she grinned at me, making only a little face
when she inhaled vampire-scented air, and trotted back to the
reservation.

* * * * *

Leah Clearwater, who had the sort of eyelashes that other women
medicated themselves to get, was skeptical. But she followed Rachel into
the forest readily enough, shook my hand with only the barest
hesitation, and complained about my stench only fourteen times between
meeting me and getting shaky enough to want to quit talking. I heard her
yelling, "Oh, for crissake, Black, put some clothes on!" at Jacob when
she arrived at the ravine, and Rachel offering her brother a towel.
Apparently he'd dewolfed but not left his place. Rachel turned around as
soon as she'd gotten them set up, and then went to retrieve the younger
Clearwater.

Leah's little brother Seth was thirteen, and a pleasanter child one
could not hope to meet. He didn't make one remark about my temperature,
odor, or supernatural weirdness, just introduced himself as polite as
could be, thanked me for helping him "either let my sister play a really
elaborate practical joke that'll make a good story later, or turn into a
werewolf", and traipsed off to join the others. When Rachel doubled
back, she reported that Leah-the-wolf was gray.

Leah's fiancé was a man named Sam Uley, a solid, somber sort who seemed
only to be playing along because Leah had already gone with Rachel. He
accepted a handshake, grimacing but not commenting when he touched my
skin, and proceeded to the phasing location with resigned exasperation.
I finished my sculpture and picked up a large fallen branch to try
working in wood instead; Rachel swung by en route to find another pack
member and told me that Seth's wolf form was sandy-colored.

It was at this point that her efforts met with less success. She came
back alone and told me she was going to risk sending Jacob to get Quil
Ateara and Embry Call, and Leah to get two girls named Marilyn and
Olivia. It was in more or less this way that the rest of the pack came
through, and through some combination of luck and Rachel's trick of
humor, there were no sudden phasings in the middle of the village
(although Rachel did need to go into Billy's house and get some of
Jacob's clothes so the boys could do this looking less ridiculous than
they would have just wrapped in towels). I promised Jacob as he walked
by that I'd replace any of his possessions that got ruined.

In all, I activated twenty-six wolves, fourteen female, twelve male.
(Embry turned out to be one after all, leading to considerable gossip
punctuated by occasional floof-induced sentence truncation about who his
father could be.) It was after dark by the time the last was brought
through. Rachel had a list of nine more people, including Becky, who
weren't living on the reservation but were still under the
twenty-five-year-old threshold and could be expected to have the gene.

"Are we sure that threshold is true?" I asked when she gave me this
list. "I mean, some of the other stories weren't true. Every girl we
tried was able to activate, and that wasn't supposed to happen at all."

"I'm not sure," she admitted. "I guess I could carry Dad out here and
see if you can get him to turn into a wolf. He already knows
everything."

"I guess you could ask," I said dubiously. I'd agreed to leave this up
to Rachel, and I had only a few weak objections to trying to activate
Billy. He wouldn't exactly be worse off if his wolf form were disabled
too; the fact that I had some trouble getting along with him personally
wouldn't become significantly more of a problem if he were one of the
pack. "Would you mind waiting until tomorrow? I want to call my husband,
and hunt, and buy plane tickets for all these people." I waved the list
of absent Quileutes.

"Yeah, sure, we could use a rest anyway," Rachel said. "I'll ask Dad
tomorrow. Have fun, uh, hunting." She paused. "What is it you usually
eat?"

"Me personally? Killer whales, when they're handy," I told her.

"Right, bag a tasty whale, but go easy, because you are what you eat,"
she snickered. "See you in the morning. I'm going to stay out overnight
-- I don't want anybody breaking their furniture phasing in the middle of
the night, in case that's a thing that happens, so we're camping. You
might wanna avoid the ravine. Sam and Nina and Paul are having some
extra trouble getting ahold of themselves and it wouldn't surprise me if
one of them went for your throat."

"Traditionally, I'm the one who goes for the throat."

She laughed. She looked so much better since the pack had ceased to be a
solo act -- she was practically radiating health and power, and that
excessive heat seemed more like a glow than a fever when it accompanied
a smile. "Okay," she said, "I'm gonna floof and go to bed. Still love
that word, by the way." She got out of her clothes, safely away from the
eyes of her packmates, and (entirely deliberately) adopted her
white-furred form. I watched her lope off into the night.

Clearwater
==========

It wasn't far from La Push to the coastline. Leaving items like my
cellphone that would be harmed by the saltwater onshore, I dove into the
water and looked for lunch. I didn't find any killer whales, so I had a
harbor seal instead. It wasn't nearly as good, but it filled me up. When
I'd emerged from the water, I called Edward, told him that I expected to
be away from Québec for at least a couple more days but that he
shouldn't worry, and asked after Gianna.

"She's okay," he said heavily, "or at least -- well, *Gianna* is fine,
but worried about her brother. The morphine didn't do what we thought.
Not long after you took off, he started screaming. Carlisle broke his
spine, but it's healed now. And he was able to say that the morphine
didn't help -- that it interacted with the venom somehow, and paralyzed
him instead of actually dulling the pain. You can imagine how horrified
Gianna was, and Carlisle's decided to start keeping barbituates on hand
at all times so that we can do it the way we did with you every time in
the future, even on no notice."

I sucked in a breath of sea air through my teeth. "*Eeesh.* Yeah, good
plan. Ilario's nearly done now?"

"Yes," said Edward. "Nearly. They'll keep me posted -- I asked them to
call my phone instead of yours when possible and let them assume that
your carrier has spotty reception here. At least, I think that's what
they assumed -- I can't be sure from this far away. Gianna has been
informed that you prefer, in spite of your control, not to be around
humans when you don't need to and are out hunting most of the time, so
she isn't going to let anything slip. Alice did try calling you once,
and told me that your power is developing in an interesting and
inconvenient way," he relayed, with some mirth.

He hadn't asked for anything about where I was at, and I was grateful.
It had begun to wear on me to be away from him for so long. He could
probably hear the ocean through the phone, but he could have asked for
more precision about my location -- or my project, or whether I was with
anyone, or what I'd been using my shiny black credit card for lately --
and I wouldn't have been able to resist telling him. It *ached* that I
couldn't safely share it all. A little itchy feeling that I must be
being too paranoid, that *no* danger was so great that it should stop me
from telling Edward everything, prickled in my mind. Only the notion
that Edward's own safety could be on the line if Aro got hold of the
wrong information let me hold my tongue.

"I'll be back as soon as I can," I promised him, not addressing the
substance of his statements. "I love you, you know."

"I love you," he murmured into the phone.

"You never say "too"," I observed. "Why not?"

"I got into the habit when you were a human," he said. "If I said "too",
it would make it sound like my love and yours were comparable, when I
was quite convinced that you couldn't love me as much as I loved you."

"That's... very silly, but probably not inaccurate," I said. "Humans
don't have a lot of space in their heads. I love you more now than I did
then."

I heard a smile in Edward's voice as he said, "Do you want me to start
saying 'too' now, then?"

"No, don't, it's cute this way."

"Very well," he laughed. "When you come back and when Ilario is ready to
be in the same house as Gianna, what do you want to do next?"

"I'd like to meet the Denalis soon," I said. "They didn't come to our
wedding, and they're extended family, aren't they?"

"We do tend to consider them so," Edward acknowledged. "I'm sure they'd
be happy to have us visit."

"Great. But don't schedule anything yet. I don't have a firm timetable."

"Of course, Bella." I felt so *accommodated*. I'd told Aro that my coven
didn't revolve around me, but in some sense, since I'd entered their
sphere of attention, it *had*. Bella asked to see vampires doing tricks;
Bella wants us to perform egg extraction surgery on her; Bella has been
targeted by an unstoppable tracker; Bella needs to be picked up in
Italy; Bella has rendered it necessary that we move to Norway; Bella's
turning; Bella's a newborn; Bella's a special snowflake; Bella needs a
test human; Bella's getting married; Bella needs a private South
Atlantic island on which to honeymoon; Bella wants to rescue a human she
met once; Bella wants to throw in the human's brother; and now Bella's
gallivanting around without telling anybody what she's up to...

I hoped someone in my family would want me to do them a favor soon.
Ideally when I wasn't up to my neck in werewolf stuff, and able to help.

"And then we can go looking in South America for half-vampires," I told
Edward -- he, at least, I could do *something* for. He'd seemed to like
the idea of having children that were really *ours* -- and I did too, if
only we could expect Gianna to survive. It was worth a while prowling
about the Amazon Basin or wherever hints led us.

"Whatever you like, love," Edward murmured.

I had nothing else I needed to do until regular business hours would let
me reserve airline tickets for inactive Quileutes by phone.

I kept Edward on the phone for a long time.

* * * * *

I had failed to arrange a rendezvous point at which Rachel would be able
to find me, so I stayed put on the beach, hoping she could follow my
scent. Failing that, she'd be able to dig up my phone number, as I'd
called her to invite her to lunch.

No phone call proved necessary. Rachel, flanked by six of her pack in a
V with three per side, found me. They walked together in a coordinated,
wary-but-confident motion; Rachel, Seth, and the girl I recognized as
Marilyn wore smiles but the others were serious and stone-faced. "Hey,
Bella," said Rachel. "Me and these six are the best bet at convincing
the people on the list I gave you to show up on the rez anytime soon.
Oh, and if you want to throw money at a problem, it'd be kind of handy
if you could order us thirty assorted pizzas and have them delivered to
Dad's -- Jake and Embry have enough of a handle on themselves to ferry
'em out to the ravine. Everybody's starving." Seth's stomach growled,
backing up her statement.

"Sure. I'll take somebody grocery shopping later for a longer-term
solution to sudden werewolf appetite, too, if you want," I said
agreeably. "How are we doing the plane tickets thing?"

"We've got four cellphones between us -- Seth, Brady, and Lynnie don't
have their own -- so we're going to call our respective people and let
you know from what airport and at what time to buy tickets for as people
get convinced," she said.

"Sounds good." The mini-pack dispersed somewhat, so they wouldn't talk
over each other; I could hear the voices on the other ends as werewolves
stumbled through requests for visits and haphazard prevarications about
winning tickets in imaginary contests. I ordered pizza. It was a little
tricky to convince the fellow who answered the phone that yes, I said
thirty, yes, I *meant* thirty, yes, the number that was represented by a
three followed by a zero. Seth was waiting for someone to loan him a
phone, and listened to me try to put in my bulk order with an amused
expression. Eventually I got the pizza guy to accept my credit card
number and agree to bring thirty pizzas to Billy's house, although he
said there would be a wait.

"How come you have so much money?" Seth asked.

"I married into a family of vampires with good investment strategies
such as 'be hundreds of years old' or 'have precognition'," I told him.

"Is it nice being a vampire?" he asked.

"I love it," I said. "Turning into one's not fun, though. You guys have
it much easier."

"Thanks for helping," he said earnestly. "Those Volturkeys sound pretty
bad."

"I don't like 'em much," I agreed. "They were useful to me one time, and
some law over vampires is better than none, but I think we can do
better."

"You're a nice vampire," Seth informed me, as though he genuinely
thought I might need to be reassured on this point. Perhaps he'd been
exposed to too much popular culture in which immortality was something
to be angsted about.

"Thank you, Seth," I said.

"You're welcome!" he said, and then Rachel was finished convincing Becky
to fly up and handed him her phone.

"So I'm guessing she'll fly out of Honolulu?" I asked Rachel. "I wasn't
paying close attention to the conversation. What's her married name?
When should I book her flight for?"

"Her and her husband are both coming," Rachel said. "Rebecca and Caleb
Euta. I told her I won a small lottery and I can cover her lost wages if
she takes a few days off -- we might actually have to promise that kind
of thing to a few people, I hope it's okay. And book it for three p.m.
our time, today, or as soon after as you can."

"I don't even have to *warn* Alice unless I want a million bucks very
suddenly," I reassured Rachel. "I can cover lost wages. I can put people
up in hotels. I can buy you all thirty pizzas every day."

"Okay, good," she said. "Pizza's on its way?" I nodded. "Also good. I
could eat a horse."

"I'm sure if one were around, you could take it down, and probably
digest it just fine in wolf form too," I pointed out. "Although you'd be
more likely to find deer or something than horse."

"Point. Still, one life-changing thing at a time. I don't want to learn
to turn into a wolf and then start eating raw meat less than twenty-four
hours later."

"Fair enough. I'll book Becky's flight." I called a few airlines,
eventually finding one that would give Becky and Caleb both seats on an
upcoming flight on short notice. Oddly, I didn't have to throw a
surcharge in -- I supposed if they had empty seats so soon before
takeoff, they'd go to considerable lengths to fly with those seats full
for cheap instead of empty for nothing.

By the time I was finished with that, two more werewolves had finished
and needed me to buy flights from Florida and Ohio. I did that, noting
between calls that Marilyn was having difficulty convincing her person --
apparently an elder cousin -- to agree to suddenly visit. I finished the
third airline booking and caught the girl's eye. "Can I help?" I mouthed
to her.

"Hang on," she told her cousin, and she put her hand over the phone.
"His girlfriend's in trouble with Immigration and he won't leave town. I
don't think you can fix that."

"Well, don't know till I try," I said. "Where are they located?"

"Albuquerque," she said. I quizzed her for more details, mentally
scanning the list of contacts licit and illicit that Edward had given
me. There weren't any local to New Mexico -- too sunny; we'd never live
there if we could help it and wanted to go out during the day. I could
probably have managed to get the authorities to leave the girl alone if
I'd tried federal law enforcement, but thought it would be potentially
conspicuous, depending on how watchful the Volturi were.

"I guess I can make a separate trip to visit him," I said. "But then
he'd be activating all by himself... do you know if your telepathy has a
range limit?" Marilyn shook her head, solemn.

I growled to myself, which caused Marilyn to phase. She whined, annoyed;
Rachel had brought a few changes of clothes along, and when she noticed
the strawberry-blond-furred wolf she waved her behind a rock and left
the clothes there.

I picked up Marilyn's phone and handed it to Rachel. "Sorry," she said
to the absent Quileute, "Marilyn had to run all of a sudden -- she may
call you back later." She flipped the phone closed and put it in her
pocket. "Don't growl," she told me. "Even I jumped a bit when I heard
it. We're all *managing* to override the whole 'you smell like cyanide
and evil, minty flowers' thing, but make it easy on us, please."

"Sorry."

Rachel waved a hand, not particularly upset, and moved on. "If we can't
get this one guy to show up, we can't get this one guy to show up. You
can get him in the next wave when more people have gotten old enough.
Although if you wanted to stick around until his girlfriend's situation
is resolved..."

"We have no idea how long that will take. Maybe I should leave you a
bottle of venom or something. If anything besides a real live vampire
will trigger a transition, that should be it. But be careful with it. If
it gets into a regular human's bloodstream it causes turning -- I have no
idea what it'd do to one of you. And it needs a glass container. It'll
eat through most anything else."

"What do we do with it?"

"Smelling it might do the trick all by itself, though probably slowly --
it's at least ninety percent of why you think I stink, I bet. Failing
that, a drop of it on *unbroken* skin might be safe -- but I'd want to
try it on somebody's little toenail, first, so it can be chopped off
smart quick if it turns out I'm wrong."

"Okay. I'll send someone to bring you a glass bottle. We'll be careful,"
she said.

* * * * *

Marilyn's cousin was the only person who absolutely couldn't be
persuaded to visit La Push. I bought the rest of the plane tickets, and
then simply handed Rachel all the cash I had in my wallet so she didn't
need to run smaller purchases by me.

The pack devoured their thirty pizzas, and I was sent on a grocery run
(alone, lest a werewolf companion phase in the middle of the store) to
buy simple food in large quantities that could be stored
unproblematically in the ravine and didn't need to be cooked. I went a
ways afield for the trip, to reduce the risk of being recognized, and
bought the store out of chips, candy, jerky, bottled juices and energy
drinks, Hostess snackfoods, and similar packaged crap, as well as some
fruit and bread. "Throwing a big party," I told the clerk, when he
looked at me in bewilderment. I still had the horse trailer attached to
my car, which made it a lot easier to fit everything.

I drove cautiously into La Push, but no one seemed to be around, so I
risked unhitching the trailer and dragging it out into the woods by hand
rather than trying to drive through the trees. Jacob and his friend
Embry were waiting at my rock to be food ferries once again, and
although they didn't phase as I passed them sacks of munchies, they
didn't seem to love being around me, either. I didn't risk aggravating
them by trying to strike up a conversation.

I hung out at my rock, waiting. Rachel brought me a rinsed lemonade
bottle and I started collecting venom. I was able to exercise some
control over the amount I generated -- just concentrating on the right
scent memories did it. It didn't take long to have it half-full.

Later, Rachel swung by again. "Jacob thinks, and on reflection I agree,
that Dad wouldn't want to be the first older person to try activating.
Leah and Seth volunteered to ask their father and they're talking to him
now."

"Okay," I said.

"I want to see how it works, so I'll hang out if you don't mind."

I spat more venom between my teeth into the lemonade bottle. "I don't if
you don't. Cyanide and evil minty flowers, though."

"Yeah. It seems to bother some of us more than others. Seth barely minds
at all -- and his sister's on the other end of the spectrum. I'm about
middling, seems like. What do we smell like to you?" She sat a few feet
away from where I was standing.

"Like wolves," I said. "But not in an earthy pleasant way."

"Have you, y'know, *eaten* a wolf -- a regular one?"

"Yeah, but I didn't care for the flavor. Wild boars are better. And
killer whales are best. But tastes vary. My husband prefers mountain
lions."

"This is all pretty wild," remarked Rachel, crossing and recrossing her
legs until she found a comfortable position on the forest floor. "I
don't think I'd be too surprised right now if I woke up in the hospital
in Spokane and found that I'd hurt my head and been having really
screwed-up dreams."

"I thought you were having fun with it now that you've got wolfy
company?"

"Don't get me wrong, there's good bits, and I don't want to get picked
off in my sleep by an evil Italian vampire who wants to make sure my
family stops existing, so I'm glad you showed up -- but it's so *crazy*.
I'm Alpha in a pack of twenty-seven -- and I can *magically back that up*
if I want, I just found that out really early this morning. Paul and Sam
got into a fight while they and I were all wolves and I thought at them
to stop and *they stopped just like that* -- I have some kind of super
commanding mojo going on, I could hear the order echoing funny in all
our heads. They were halfway *bowing* to me before I told them to cut
*that* out."

"Uh, wow," I said. "...With great power, comes great responsibility?"

Rachel snorted. "Yeah. I am going to have to be super careful about
using that. I don't know yet if it works out of wolf form. But even if
it doesn't -- *holy crow,* Bella, *I personally have mind-control powers
over a small army of almost thirty telepathic werewolves*. I'm reeling
just a *tiny bit*."

"Your power's more interesting than mine," I volunteered. "I don't even
get to decide whether to use it."

"Huh?"

"Oh, some humans -- regular ones -- have a little bit of magic," I said,
pinching the air to indicate the quantity. "Different powers that do
random things. Those are called witches. I was one. Turning is supposed
to intensify everything, especially witchiness, but so far my power's
the same as it always was. I'm immune to some other witch powers -- my
husband's, and the mindreader Volturi's, and some of their guard."

"Freaky. Is that the deal with your psychic sister?"

"Yeah, she's a witch too, and so's her husband -- he's like an empath. My
parents-in-law and my other brother and sister are just your boring,
everyday, bog-standard vegetarian vampires."

"Bella, dunno if you noticed, but you have a weird family," remarked
Rachel.

"Yep," I laughed. "Oh, I hear Leah and Seth bringing their dad." I
listened. "Um... It sounds like they're fighting."

Rachel sat bolt upright. "Fighting? They're having a fight with Mr.
Clearwater?"

"Leah is; sounds like -" Before I could finish the sentence, Rachel had
sprung to her feet and phased midstride to plunge into the woods towards
the arguing father and daughter.

* * * * *

I didn't follow. I had an idea of what worried her -- she thought Mr.
Clearwater would anger Leah to the point where she'd phase and possibly
injure him, and wanted to be on the scene to avoid that. My presence
wouldn't make it any easier to keep Leah in her skin, and if she did
hurt her father, I still didn't know how I'd do around fresh human
blood.

And so I listened.

Rachel was taking long, swift strides. Mr. Clearwater's voice was
saying, "Young lady, now you listen to me, if you -"

Leah interrupted him: "No, you listen to me! I can go wherever I want! I
don't need your permission to breathe!"

"Your brother is only thirteen years old! You can't just take him out
camping overnight without telling me where you're going to be! Do you
have any idea how frantic I was this morning? Your mother thought I'd
have a heart attack, she was worried sick herself -"

"Seth is fine! Look, he's in one piece!" The in-one-piece boy was making
quiet, non-word protestations, trying to calm his family. "You used to
trust me with him -- you just don't like that Sam was with -"

"And there's another thing! You're too young to be engaged -"

And there was a soft, cottony *floof* --

And a furious snarl --

And screaming.

Mr. Clearwater was howling with pain. I heard Seth phasing, and then I
could barely decipher the sounds -- three voices barking, one or two
wolves tackling a third, snapping jaws and high yelps.

The man's shouts were rapidly weakening.

I picked up my lemonade bottle, took and held a deep breath, and ran.

* * * * *

It took me only a couple of seconds to reach them. When I got there,
Rachel had Leah pinned; Leah was a smaller, medium-grey wolf, cringing
under presumable mental chastisement by her Alpha. Seth was in his own
sandy-furred wolf form not far from them, lifting and dropping his
forepaws at irregular intervals as though he wanted to run somewhere but
couldn't quite understand where. And a bit beyond him was his father.

Mr. Clearwater was an absolute mess. I realized as I looked at him that
when Rachel had swiped at me, that had been *restrained*: I was tougher
than a human, sure, but this heap of barely-breathing meat had not
received one swat to the face, he'd been *savaged*. Blood flowed in
rivulets away from his body. I very, very carefully did not inhale.

His heart was still feebly, irregularly beating.

"The hospital's twenty minutes away if you floor it," I said. "He won't
make it that far." And then, conserving air, I held up the bottle of
venom. "Only chance."

Seth whined. Leah craned her neck from her prone position to see what I
was holding, and yelped, but I couldn't discern the meaning. Rachel
stared me down; I met her gaze, holding quite still. "He'll die," I said
softly.

Mr. Clearwater made a gurgling sound and Seth wailed, pawing at the
ground. Rachel got off of Leah, who rolled onto her front but didn't
stand, instead bowing her head towards the white wolf. There was a pause
that lasted entirely too long.

I considered, but rejected, the plan of saying that if I started turning
him and they changed their minds, they could always kill him later.
Instead, I used the last of my air to say, "I think I can save him. But
it's up to you."

Rachel hesitated for another half-second. Mr. Clearwater's heart
faltered, and I grimaced. Finally, her big white head dipped and rose: a
nod.

I was at the man's side instantly, found a big puncture wound next to
his heart, and poured the venom in. His heart thudded as though
electrocuted, and one of his arms -- apparently the only limb that he
could still move -- jerked wildly. A high keen of pain shrieked out of
his mouth. I would have broken his spine, but didn't know if he could
take much more punishment before even venom wouldn't save him -- I didn't
know what to break well enough to aim precisely. At any rate, it looked
like some of his nerves were cut off anyway.

I had no breath left. I swept away a swath of forest debris and
scratched in the dirt, instead: *I'm out of air. I can't risk smelling
his blood.*

Rachel read the message; I assumed the others could see in her thoughts
what I'd written. I cleared the words with a pass of my hand and wrote,
*It is not safe for a newborn vampire to be near humans. I need to take
him to my family's friends in Alaska.* Rachel read it, nodded, and I
replaced the writing several more times. *It will take him three days to
turn and then he'll be a vampire. Did he already know about us, like
your dad?*

Rachel picked up a paw and wavered it in a so-so motion -- so he'd
probably learned all the stories but not believed them. *Vampires who
didn't expect to turn, or at least know it was possible, are not as
self-controlled. I'm very unusual. He will probably not be able to
safely come near humans for at least a year. Our friends have phone
service and Internet access and you can keep in touch that way. I will
need to tie him up and wrap him in a blanket so no one sees him through
my windows, because he will try to thrash around and he looks awful.*

Leah whined miserably at that, and Rachel shot her a look; the gray wolf
hunkered even lower to the ground, ears flat against her head in
submisison or guilt or both. Seth looked anxious. *It's terrible, but
when it's over, it's over -- he'll be fine*, I promised in writing. *I
need rope or something like it, and a path no one's looking at to my car
so I can bring him to it.* I spat a mouthful of venom into the emptied
bottle and set it on the ground. *I'll leave you this so you can
activate Becky and the other out-of-towners without me here.*

Rachel nodded. I didn't see anyone running to get me what I'd asked for,
but she'd probably sent a mental order to another wolf or two. I wrote,
*It's up to you what you tell his wife, but he will probably want to
contact her, which will be less of a shock to her if she knows. Text me,
don't call, if you have to communicate something in the next three days.
I won't want to breathe with him in the car. If your phone can't do it
buy one that can; I'll send you more money as you need it.* Rachel
nodded again. *Is there anything else I need to be here for before I get
him out of here?* She shook her head.

I carefully lifted Mr. Clearwater off the ground, clamping one hand over
his mouth to stop his moans of pain from carrying to anyone not in the
know, and ran for my car. I saw only werewolves on my way: Embry and
Jacob on lookout and Marilyn waiting by the passenger door with a
convenient hank of rope and a fleecy comforter. I took them from her
without speaking, tied Mr. Clearwater's wrists and ankles together
behind his back, rolled him up in the blanket, and put him in the
backseat; he bled a little on the fleece, but I could already see his
wounds getting shallower as the venom percolated through his system. I
slammed the door and got into the driver's seat.

* * * * *

I had no idea where in Alaska one would find Denali, nor where in Denali
the coven lived. I texted Edward for directions (telling him to direct
me there from Seattle) as I hurtled southeast to route around Puget
Sound. He replied in installments, and asked if I wanted him to warn the
Denali family that I was en route; I said that I'd appreciate it and
told him to also warn them that I was bringing another newborn.

Edward said he'd let the necessary border crossing agents know that I
wasn't to be troubled, through suitably convincing channels. I hadn't
even thought of the difficulty of getting a mid-turning Mr. Clearwater
into Canada and then from Canada into Alaska and experienced a surge of
gratitude for my husband's support.

He also asked if I wanted him to meet me there. *Gianna can't go,* I
wrote back. *David would try to eat her. You shouldn't leave her
unattended.* He replied with his acquiescence and asked if there was
anything else I needed, which there was not. *I love you,* I concluded
my last message. He wrote back in kind, and then my phone went into my
pocket.

I had to stop for gas after only forty miles. Luckily, the gas station
was under heavy clouds and almost deserted. I closed the door behind me
as quickly as I could after getting out, and took a few breaths of
fume-scented air. Only the barest whiff of blood, from dried drops
clinging to my sleeves where I'd picked Mr. Clearwater up, heated the
air: it was tolerable. I filled up the tank and hoped the other patron
of the station thought I was splattered with paint. It was fortunate
that my shirt was dark brown: it looked damp, but not necessarily
bloodstained.

I got back in the car and used my lungful of air to talk to Mr.
Clearwater. "I'm Bella, Charlie Swan's daughter," I told him. "I'm a
vampire. You're turning into one. Your children are werewolves. Leah
lost her temper and hurt you. This was the only way to save you. I can't
talk much because if I smell your blood I may also hurt you." Mr.
Clearwater made a confused wailing noise, but I had no more words.

A few hours later, I decided to try opening my window, sticking my head
out, and getting a breath of bloodless air that way. It worked. With
clean air in my lungs, I said, "Mr. Clearwater, I'm taking you to
Alaska. Some vampires my family is friends with live there and they will
take care of you. Being a new vampire is hard, especially if you aren't
prepared for it, and you will need help." I stuck my head out the window
again, and kept talking. I gave him the rundown of vampire ins and outs,
and got him up to speed on the status of the werewolf pack.

My car was waved through the border when they read the license plate and
I continued through British Columbia. I continued talking to Mr.
Clearwater with outside air, trying to keep his mind off the pain as
much as possible. "Please don't tell my friends that you are from a
tribe of werewolves," I told him. "It's safest if they don't know." I
explained Aro, then repeated myself in case he hadn't been able to
follow the entire justification for secrecy through the burning. "Tell
them that you're from Forks, that I know you through Charlie, that I ran
into you in Seattle while you were there bringing your thirteen-year-old
to the Space Needle -- don't give them Seth's name unless you can't avoid
it -- and I tagged along, that you were hit by a car, and that I turned
you to save you from your injuries."

It took only two days to get as far as Fairbanks, and Mr. Clearwater
wasn't done turning. I didn't want David to kill him, so instead of
continuing directly to the coven's home, I parked on the edge of the
Denali National Park to wait.

Nobody was liable to interrupt us, so I unwrapped his blanket and untied
his ropes. His eyes were scrunched shut. His clothes were still torn and
covered in blood, but his wounds were all smoothed over, not even
pinkish. The color was mostly drained from his skin -- melanin
dissolving, blood converting to vampire fuel. He was slightly ecru, that
was all. I pulled up a misty memory of the olive-like hue to Laurent's
skin, and wondered if the off-white tinge was because Mr. Clearwater was
not finished turning or because he was Native American. I looked
completely bleached, but I'd started out pale and Caucasian.

By my estimation, Mr. Clearwater was in his late forties or early
fifties, but the transformation was rearranging his features and
smoothing out his complexion: it took at least a decade off his apparent
age, an effect that I hadn't noticed so much with vampires who'd been
turned young or at unknown ages. I could actually see him becoming more
symmetrical. A time-lapse movie of his face would have shown his nose
tilting out of its crookedness, his left eye drifting south to match the
right, puckers and lines in his skin fading into flush smoothness with
the surrounding skin.

It occurred to me that I didn't remember his first name. He was one of
Charlie's friends, and I had to have heard it before, but I'd always
referred to him as "Mr. Clearwater" in writing and couldn't conjure up a
human memory of learning his full name. Presumably that wouldn't be
something he'd forget, though, and he could tell me when he finished
turning.

He was surprisingly quiet. I'd screamed more than he had even with my
abbreviated consciousness. He didn't talk, either. Just occasionally
whimpered.

I could still hear his heart beating, so he wasn't dead and didn't have
to die. I waited, not breathing.

* * * * *

As dawn broke on the last day of Mr. Clearwater's turning, I got a
series of texts from Rachel: all of the far-flung werewolves except
Marilyn's cousin had arrived, and droplets of venom on unbroken skin
"hurt a little but didn't injure them and now they're all floofed". She
reported that Becky was black, "like Sam -- so far I'm the only white
one, although Nina's kind of pale yellow".

The twins didn't seem to share the Alpha power. It remained with Rachel.
They were considering trying to somehow deliberately split the pack in
two so as to make it more manageable. Becky's husband Caleb had been
brought into the loop with considerable astonishment, but since I was
willing to cover lost wages, his main protests about staying at La Push
for a time involved the inferior surfing opportunities, which no one,
even Becky, took very seriously. (I did have to confirm that it was fine
with me if I had to go on covering his surfing instruction money for a
bit longer than expected in case he lost clients.)

Sue Clearwater, Leah and Seth's mother, had been told about her
husband's situation and was reacting as though he'd died -- that didn't
bode well for a later happy reunion.

It occurred to me to wonder whether there was any reason that Mr.
Clearwater would, as a vampire, find that his wife was also his
supernatural mate. There didn't seem to be any strong reason why he
*would*. It was only charitable to assume that they loved each other,
but it would be in an entirely human way -- and I knew human things
dissolved quickly when the mind was barraged by even a few seconds of
ultra-clear vampire sensation. I knew human love could evaporate under
lesser pressures than that, and could occur more than once in a
lifetime.

Neither of the elder Clearwaters had, so far as I knew, the unusual
beauty or witchcraft that seemed to correlate with being turned under
the traditional way of things. That meant that if my hypothesis about
what created vampire mating bonds was in the right ballpark, it would be
extremely unlikely for Mr. Clearwater to be drawn to Mrs. Clearwater the
way Edward had been drawn to me.

I was half tempted to say to myself, "But if Sue really loves him,
she'll just be glad he's alive!" But according to Rachel, she was acting
like he *wasn't*, as though a heartbeat or being above room temperature
were somehow more important than the ability to move around and think
and talk. And anyway, even if she'd been willing to consider her vampire
husband a living creature, it was all too common that real love wasn't
as selfless as the fictional kind.

Even Edward, the sincerity of whose affection I had no cause whatever to
doubt, had been driven to what was, on reflection, fairly rash behavior
in order to be around my human self. Had Alice simply saved me from
Tyler's errant van and then evaporated from my life with her family,
then I, untouched by magically enhanced emotion, could have finished
high school, gone to college, married some arbitary human when I was at
an age more pleasing to my parents -- perhaps without even remembering
that Edward existed. I might have been happy, in the way that humans
could be happy. But Edward had wanted to be *with* me, could not but
panic at the notion that I might do without him. And so he'd braved my
singer's blood, swallowing flames with every breath for the privilege of
talking to me.

I tried to think about the situation in reverse, and my imagination
failed me. I couldn't imagine Edward as a human, wayward and fickle.
Couldn't imagine him willing and able to forget about me. In the entire
time I'd known him, it was so core to his personality that I was his top
priority. I didn't know how to construct a mental image of him with some
other motive driving him. He'd been human, once, had spent many years
managing reasonably well without my having even been *born*. But I
failed to picture it. And he framed it, when he spoke of those times, as
if his life prior to meeting me had just been a drawn-out and unusually
elaborate waiting period. Like I was his reason to exist in the first
place, and I'd just taken my sweet time getting there.

Somewhere in the world, I expected with sadness, was Mr. Clearwater's
reason to exist --

And she probably wasn't Sue.

I could only hope that he'd still love his children the way he should. I
had better hopes for this -- I hadn't stopped caring about my parents,
after all. They weren't as strongly featured in my thoughts anymore, but
I didn't think that their reduced centrality in my life needed further
explanation beyond my international change of residence, assorted
globetrotting, and new marriage.

But it would be clear soon enough what changes beyond the obvious I had
wrought. The sun crept higher in the sky.

* * * * *

Mr. Clearwater's heart was beating faster.

I opened all of the windows in the car: his blood had long since dried,
and wasn't even as interesting as a live unbleeding human, but it was
still better to get fresh air into the enclosed space where he was about
to wake up.

I reviewed what Jasper had said on the subject of handling newborns.
Don't let them get their arms around you, don't go for the obvious
strikes because that's all they expect, let their own momentum wrench
off an arm and they'll be distracted enough by pain that you can pin
them --

I was a newborn too, and would therefore have some advantage over most
wranglers thereof, but having some strategy was rarely amiss.

Mr. Clearwater curled up in the fetal position, moving slowly to clutch
at his heart, but only a quiet moan betrayed the enfolding pain in
sound. Why wasn't he screaming? Was it because he was old, did he just
have a stoic personality, was there some interaction with the werewolf
gene --

His eyes flew open, blazing red, and his body unfolded and propelled
itself through, not an open window, but through the door itself. He left
a ragged hole. The door didn't cling to him, but it was pulled from its
frame and clattered to the ground; Mr. Clearwater ran headlong into the
woods.

He was, of course, vampire-fast, but he wasn't making good use of his
strength to get the most distance out of each stride. I caught up to him
and kept pace rather than trying to tackle him and risk provoking him
into fighting me. "Mr. Clearwater!" I yelled. "Hey!"

He looked around, grimacing, and then faced forward again and kept
running.

"Mr. Clearwater, please stop," I said. "I can help you." He didn't slow
down. "There might be humans in the park, if you run into one you could
hurt them," I pleaded.

He scrambled up a tree, and I followed. "You can't outrun me," I said.
"If you don't hold still -" He flung himself thirty feet to the next
branch and I kept chasing him. "*Mr. Clearwater!* Stop!" Was this normal
newborn behavior? Had something gone wrong? A drop of lemonade in the
venom, a reaction to the werewolf gene...?

When I heard non-animal-like rustling, I didn't have time to indulge his
flight any further. That could be a hiker he might run across and kill.
I propelled myself directly at him, knocking him out of the air between
trees and to the ground. I used a branch to swing away immediately after
impact, not wanting to trigger any instinct he might have to grab me and
squeeze. I dropped to the ground beside him.

"Mr. Clearwater," I began one more time, and then he was off again. I
had no patience left: I sprang at him, pushing off from the ground with
all the power I had, and tackled him. I managed to get *my* arms around
*him*, and although I had no intention of crushing him to powder, I
could hold on more than tightly enough to hold him still. I managed to
sort of fold him up, his knees to his chin, so I could prevent him from
kicking me or trying to push me over. He wasn't going anywhere. "Mr.
Clearwater," I repeated. "Please say something so I know I didn't find a
way to turn you while somehow *leaving your brain behind*."

He stared up at me out of confused vermilion eyes. "...Bella?" he
managed. His voice was a smoother, lower version of the one I'd heard
chastising Leah.

"That's me. How do you feel? Are you okay?" I asked encouragingly,
slightly relaxing my hold as he'd shown a sign of sanity -- and then he
twisted suddenly, springing his shoulders away from his legs like a
backwards bear trap and catapulting himself away. He took off at a run
again, in the direction of the rustling. I couldn't *smell* a human, but
we were upwind of the area -- I chased him, trying to circle around and
drive him the opposite way. "HEY!" I yelled at the top of my lungs,
hoping the hiker or whoever it was would hear me, "I saw a *bear*, if
anybody can hear me *run*, I think it's mad!" Not that it'd help a human
much to run from a vampire. *I should have driven the rest of the way to
the Denali's house as soon as I heard his heart speeding up!* I
chastised myself. I managed to circle to Mr. Clearwater's left and drive
him away from where I'd heard the sound.

It wasn't until I knocked him down again and was struggling to get him
into another bear hug without being deprived of a limb that I noticed
the rustling was *following* us.

Very fast.

I felt a hand clap me on the back, not hard enough to hurt but enough to
tell me that it was no human hand, and I saw bright sparks running over
Mr. Clearwater's skin. He convulsed as if Tasered, breaking my grip but
making no further attempt to run. He cringed on the ground and looked
up. I risked taking my eyes off him to see who'd joined us.

Denali
======

"How are you on your feet?" asked the vampire woman. She was gold-eyed --
one of the Denalis, then, not some random nomad. Her platinum blond hair
was pulled back into a long ponytail.

"It's nice to meet you too. I'm Bella." I hadn't received any detailed
descriptions of the Denali coven -- I remembered that there were three
original sisters, and a mated couple who'd joined them together, and
that Laurent had wound up mated to a sister called Irina and then there
was David, but I couldn't determine who of four possible women I was
speaking to. I didn't remember receiving a rundown of any witchcraft
that the coven possessed.

She reached out and poked me in the shoulder, gently; nothing happened.
"You're something, Bella," she told me. "I thought it was just your
brain that was all locked up safe."

"And who might I have the honor of being poked by?" I inquired testily.

"Oh, sorry. I'm Katrina, you can call me Kate. Is this your newborn?"
she asked, peering at Mr. Clearwater, still curled up on the ground and
staring at her.

"Yes -- what did you do to him?"

"Zapped him. I was trying to get you too, to be honest. Edward said you
were a special one, but he's your mate, he'd say you were special if
you'd tried to pulverize his head. Couldn't be sure that you hadn't just
got into a normal newbie scuffle with this fellow. What's wrong with
him, anyway? He should be up by now. I can only down people for a
second."

"I don't know. I can't even tell if it's normal newborn behavior. I'm
the only one I've ever met, and Edward wasn't just being a doting
husband when he told you about me."

"I've had to knock David around some, but he gets right up," said Kate.

I still didn't want to tell the Denalis about the werewolves, but I had
plenty of credibility to claim complete ignorance. "I didn't bite him,"
I said. "He was beat up pretty bad. I spat some venom into a bottle and
poured it into a wound. Would that do it?"

Kate *hmmed* and looked at Mr. Clearwater. "Not sure. Never tried it
that way. But you weren't bitten either, right?" I nodded. "Maybe he's
got some witchy sense you're blocking and he's scared of you in
particular?" she suggested. "He calmed down when I showed up."

I backed away, to no discernible reaction from Mr. Clearwater -- but then
he'd already quit fleeing at Kate's arrival. "What's his name?" she
asked me, tipping her head to look at the crouching vampire from a
different angle.

"Mr. Clearwater," I said. "He's a friend of my father's -- I probably
knew his first name at one point but I can't call it to mind now. I ran
into him in Seattle when he was there to take his son to the Space
Needle, and then he got hit by a car and I turned him -- I didn't think
he'd make it to a hospital."

"Mr. Clearwater," said Kate in a soothing voice, "can you tell me your
full name?"

"...I'm... Harry," he said, flicking his eyes between me and Kate
warily. "Harry Clearwater."

"Can you tell me why you ran from Bella, Harry?" asked Kate.

"She's..." He plainly didn't have words to express whatever concept he
was using. He settled for, "She's *wrong*." I didn't protest; Kate was
having much more success getting clear sentences out of him than I had.

"Am I wrong?" asked Kate. Harry shook his head, although he didn't look
satisfied with the answer. "What's wrong with Bella?"

"There's nothing there," said Harry. "She's not -- a *person*."

Kate furrowed her brow. "This sounds like something witchlike to me. We
should take him to the house, and see what Eleazar makes of him."

"Fine by me," I said. "What does Eleazar do?"

"He's got a meta-power, like yours. He can tell what somebody does
without having to ask them or watch them do it," explained Kate. "Maybe
he can tell us why Harry here thinks you're "wrong"." She offered Harry
her hand, and he took it and got to his feet -- not that it was
necessary, assuming he was physically normal, but it was a gesture
indicating that his panic was just about me and not something
fundamentally broken about how he'd turned.

* * * * *

Kate led me and Harry through the woods. We didn't run, just strolled.
"So why'd you start yelling about a bear?" Kate asked me over her
shoulder.

"I heard you and thought at first that you were a human -- I didn't want
Harry to run into you and eat you."

"Considerate of you." She led us to a cluster of three houses, all made
of stone but otherwise different: one huge, obviously ancient home of
grey rock, one somewhat newer one in a beige color, and one that could
have been finished the previous week in white. She directed us to the
second house; my guess was that the original coven built the grey
structure, added a new house for Eleazar and his mate when they'd
arrived, and only a short time ago put up the white manor for Irina and
Laurent.

An olive-tinted, dark-haired vampire was sitting in the front room of
the beige house, reading a book. For a moment I wondered if he was
Laurent with a haircut, but Kate greeted him: "Eleazar," she said.
"Bella and this newborn, Harry Clearwater, are here. He seems to sense
something strange about Bella, and I thought you might inspect him and
see what that could be."

Eleazar set down his book and looked at Harry, frowning with
concentration. Harry fidgeted uncomfortably, and kept looking at me,
still unnerved, but apparently Eleazar didn't share my disconcerting
characteristic. "Interesting," said Eleazar after several seconds. "It
doesn't surprise me that a shield like Bella would block him. His power
isn't unlike Edward's in scope; he senses people. If I were him I would
be quite alarmed to see a face with no detectable presence behind it. It
reminds me of what Carlisle has said about his acquaintance Alistair,
although I haven't inspected him."

"Edward didn't freak out and bolt when he realized I was inaudible," I
said.

"Yes, well, Edward's power works via the sense of hearing -- he doesn't
use his ears, but he does experience the thoughts he picks up as though
they were sound." This I'd known -- Edward had told me that Carlisle had
noticed his mindreading before Edward had, because Edward kept replying
to thoughts as though they'd been spoken. "Harry gets his information on
another level -- it's about recognition, not sensation. Like seeing
someone familiar and identifying them." Harry nodded emphatically,
apparently finding Eleazar's explanation satisfactory.

"At range?" I asked, and Eleazar nodded, still looking steadily at Harry
-- I guessed that concentration was required for his power to operate.

"Maybe a better range than Edward's. It may differ for vampires and
humans, though," allowed Eleazar. "A number of powers do."

"Okay. So, Harry, we know why I don't seem like a person to you, but
that's just because I involuntarily block stuff like that," I said
placatingly. "Please don't be scared of me. I'm totally a person." Harry
looked at me uneasily, but nodded. I turned to Eleazar. "You called me a
'shield' -- does that have some special technical meaning? What are you
getting from me?"

"Nothing, now," said Eleazar. "As soon as I said it you started blocking
me, too."

"I didn't do it on purpose," I said. "I have no control at all -- and
this is the first I've heard of it ever lapsing. Edward doesn't hear
stray thoughts on alternate Tuesdays or anything."

"My power requires concentration to work at full strength, and I was
focusing on Harry, not you," said Eleazar, as Kate led Harry away on a
tour of the house. "It's possible that I got through your shield only
with my sense's indirect form, or only because I was thinking about how
Harry's power relates to yours. I might get more information the next
time I'm not paying attention to you or the next time I watch you
shielding against someone I can examine normally. I'll let you know if
it happens. At any rate, 'shield' is a classification the Volturi use to
describe defensive powers."

I sat on a chair opposite Eleazar and leaned my elbows on my knees. "I'm
immune to Kate," I said, "and Edward, Aro, Jane, Alec, and apparently
you and Harry. But not Jasper or Alice. I thought I had the pattern of
it until Kate couldn't knock me over. I could *see* the current she was
generating when she zapped Harry. That's not a mental thing. And
Jasper's ability to work on me confuses me too."

"No two powers are the same," said Eleazar, "because no two witches
*think* the same way."

I blinked. "Are you saying that I think of Kate's Taser like a mental
phenomenon and not Jasper's empathy?"

"Not necessarily -- it doesn't sound like you do, at any rate," he
replied. "But I think Kate thinks of her power as operating on the
nervous system in particular, which is electrical; and Jasper has always
described his ability as relating to things like pulse and muscle
tension and hormone levels."

"So you're saying Jasper works on me because I don't think of his power
as mental *more than* he thinks of it as physical, and vice versa with
Kate?"

"Something like that," Eleazar agreed.

Possibilities were bubbling up in my mind. "If I manage to teach myself
to think of Jasper as operating on a mental level, could I add an
immunity to him?" I didn't mention the analogous Kate possibility; even
if my resistance to her shocks made no *sense*, I had no interest in
shedding layers of shielding, even against an ally. I would just have to
avoid thinking too hard about how *absurd* it was to consider electrical
shocks a mental power.

"I would imagine you could, although I'm at something of a disadvantage
trying to guess how you might develop," he told me wryly.

"Can you give me any tips -- general ones -- on how witches can improve
over time?" I asked eagerly. I did *like* my power -- it was essential to
some of what I was doing -- but I *had* been disappointed that I hadn't
turned into a vampire and discovered that I could also become invisible
or something similarly spectacular. I hadn't woken up *better*.

"Kate used to be limited in where she could project her current. She
could only radiate it from the palms of her hands. She expanded it with
practice -- sheer use of the power. She got into the habit of keeping it
active all the time."

"Mine is already active all the time," I grumbled.

"I refined my detection very slowly -- not through continuous exercise,
but by learning how to concentrate on it. It was most difficult while I
was a new vampire," Eleazar went on, "and was more distractable. I've
been able to cut down on the time it takes me to inspect someone."

That was more promising -- *if* my power was controllable by a mental
state which I just happened to be in *all the time*, learning to
intensify or manipulate that state could let me gain control over fine
detail. "Anything else?" I asked.

Eleazar pursed his lips. "Most people don't trouble to develop their
powers, or if they try, they fail. I suppose Chelsea improved over
time... but that was likely another case of mere practice. She is very
busy."

"The Volturi guard member who breaks and bolsters relationships?" I
asked, recalling Gianna's mention of her. Eleazar nodded. "I don't know
if I'm immune to her or not."

"I would be very surprised if you were not; Chelsea thinks of her power
as operating on a similar wavelength as Harry's, the instinctual
realization of another person as friend or foe... Do you know if Marcus
can see relationships you are involved in?" Eleazar asked.

"I don't, but Edward might have seen. I *think* Marcus was in the room
when he and Carlisle and Esme picked me up from Italy, although I don't
remember for sure, and as far as I know I didn't gain any new shielding
when I turned. What would you make of that, either way?"

"I'd conclude more about Marcus than about you from that information. My
prediction, though, is that he'd be able to manage it -- I believe his
understanding of relationships is derived from a human talent at reading
body language, rather than from anything more abstract. If he can't see
your connections, then I've misunderstood the basis for his power." I
nodded. Eleazar named more members of the guard, who I hadn't met:
"Afton? Corin? Demetri? Heidi? Renata? I suppose if you're alive you
didn't test Renata..."

"What do they do?" I asked, after having shaken my head at each name.

"Renata is Aro's personal bodyguard. She's a shield, somewhat like you,"
he said. "Anyone trying to attack either her, or anyone within a few
meters who she chooses to defend, will be diverted. She stays quite near
Aro nearly always, and will protect Caius and Marcus as well if there is
a need. They find themselves going in another direction without
realizing it, not remembering what it was they wanted to do -- it's a
very disorienting sensation for a vampire, to lack a clear
recollection."

I could imagine. "Well, I didn't try to attack anyone in the compound,
so I don't know about Renata. What about the rest from your list?"

Heidi, Eleazar said, mesmerized -- she was as beautiful as Rosalie, but
could turn her allure to hypnotic effect. Eleazar noted when I asked
that it wasn't a sexual attraction that she projected. Otherwise, he
speculated, it would be overridden by mate bonds (which were also
impermeable to Chelsea) and wouldn't function on paired vampires. It was
just aesthetic intrigue, leading those she targeted to follow where she
led so they could continue to look at her. The Volturi used her as a
hunter: she brought them takeout, so to speak. "Hunting is illegal
within Volterra itself, except when Heidi brings in humans to the
Volturi's own compound," he explained.

Demetri was the tracker whose skill had rendered James unnecessary to
the guard. But Eleazar thought that where James's scent-oriented power
had served well in finding me, Demetri -- otherwise infinitely James's
superior -- might be baffled. He followed thoughts, some unique quirk of
the mind that he could trace wherever it went -- and I might well be
invisible to him.

Afton was Chelsea's mate, but his power was unrelated to hers. He could
manipulate the inertia of his own body, as Eleazar described it: unless
his opponent had an extra advantage that gave a boost in a physical
fight, like Alice or Renata, he was nigh-unbeatable. He could add force
to his blows, and check misplaced momentum, with better finesse than
even the best-trained normal vampire. Eleazar thought that Afton might
win in a sufficiently lengthy footrace with Edward, who was the fastest
vampire of whom he was aware. I had no reason to expect to fare well
against this power.

Corin was the person that the "shield" category was named after. His
power wasn't so comprehensive as Renata's, and worked on a different
level. He could throw up invisible barriers near his person that would
repel any physical assault, but these barriers had limited area, took
focus to create, and didn't move once he called them up except when
purposefully dismissed or simply abandoned by Corin moving too far away.
He could also only make one at a time. In practice, Eleazar summarized,
this was like having an actual *object* shielding him, albeit an
invisible one that could vary in precise shape, phase into and out of
existence, and teleport. I didn't expect my own shield to be able to do
anything about Corin either. I speculated that Edward could beat Corin
up, on the grounds that Edward would know where the shield was by
reading Corin's mind and would be fast enough to get around it before it
could be moved; Eleazar agreed.

I asked Eleazar to tell me more about the categories. "They're haphazard
groupings," he cautioned. "Thinking too much in terms of them isn't the
best way to make predictions about what a given witch will be able to
do. That said, the Volturi classify powers as one of six types: shields,
weapons, illusionists, sensors, trackers, and pullers, to use the
English terms. There's some overlap between categories, to the point
that the only reason trackers have their own is that there are tactical
differences in their powers' use. For example, Jasper's power has a
sensory component, and if all he could do were detect others' moods,
he'd be a sensor -- but because he can adjust emotions as well, he'd be
classified as a puller. So called because they 'pull' the world around
them in ways that suit them."

"So I'm a shield, Jasper's a puller, I'm going to guess you and Edward
are sensors?"

"Yes, and Alice too -- although I've never seen anyone else at all like
her, whereas many other powers have similar counterparts in several
witches, like Edward and Aro or Harry and Alistair. Kate is a weapon.
You might think Jane would be too, but she's categorized as an
illusionist, as is her twin. James and Demetri are trackers, obviously --
I'd class Harry as one as well."

I nodded. "So if I've got the hang of this, I'm immune to all
illusionists as far as we know, but it's a mixed bag for every other
group, if your guesses about the guard are right."

"Yes, that's what it looks like. I wouldn't expect any power to line up
evenly with those divisions, though, Bella. They're convenient
inventions, not natural categories. You might meet an illusionist who
can get through your barriers."

Kate re-entered the front room, having finished showing Harry around. "I
hope you don't mind, Eleazar," she said, "but I offered Harry the green
room. I don't want *two* newborns in the main house, and I doubt Irina
and Laurent would appreciate sharing their living space so early on.
Harry seems less wild than David, anyway, and you shouldn't need me
around to knock him down on a daily basis."

"David's that hard to handle?" I asked.

"He's a newborn," said Kate, shrugging, and then she glanced at my eyes.
"A regular one, I mean. Do you want to meet him?"

"Yes, please," I said. "I want to meet everyone before I go."

"Come on, then, we'll let Eleazar get back to his reading," said Kate
with a smile, and she waved me along to follow her out the door.

* * * * *

We went to the main house, and Kate showed me in. Two women, one as pale
as me with strawberry blonde curls and one olive-tinged with black hair,
were playing chess on a checkerboard-patterned table. A man who I
presumed was David was pacing before a picture window. When I walked in,
he spun around and dropped into a crouch, snarling at me.

I looked at him, nonplussed; I could *detect* the little instinct
jumping up and down in the back of my mind saying *unfamiliar vampire!
likely threat!*, but it didn't seem important. I'd known he would be
there, and Kate and the other two were present and known to be friendly.

David seemed totally owned by his instinct, though, and none of the
other women were surprised by his reaction. Kate motioned for me to stay
put and approached him slowly. "David," she said softly, "this is Bella.
Remember that we told you Bella was coming? You've met Edward. She's his
mate."

David looked like he was fighting with himself, like he wanted to run
from me or bite my head off. But eventually he straightened up and, with
only a slight grimace, said "Hello, Bella."

"Hi, David," I said. "It's nice to meet you."

This bland introduction out of the way, and David apparently unlikely to
attack me, Kate turned to her sisters. "This is Carmen, Eleazar's mate,
and this is Tanya," she told me, identifying first the dark chessplayer
and then her fairer counterpart. It looked like Carmen was winning, but
I hadn't thought about chess since turning and wasn't confident I
remembered the rules. She did have more pieces on the board, though.

"It's good to finally have a chance to get to know you," said Carmen,
looking away from the game. "We've heard some of your story, but we
aren't in very regular contact with your family; we only know the
basics. It's such a pity that it wasn't possible for us to come to your
wedding. So tell me -- how did it happen that you brought a newborn?"

"We're going to be Newborn Central at this rate," commented Tanya
playfully. David started pacing again, like a cat plotting revenge on
some innocent woodland creature. "I hope the one you brought is less of
a handful."

"He seems to be. He doesn't like Bella much, though," joked Kate. She
summarized what Eleazar had said about Harry's power, and repeated the
fake story of how I'd come to turn him.

I watched Carmen and Tanya play chess, and answered questions about
myself, picking up the corresponding information from them. The three
original sisters, Tanya, Irina, and Kate, were all about a thousand
years old -- calendars had been iffy at the time of their origins, and
they hadn't bothered to individually tot up every hour they remembered
experiencing and figure it out that way. They'd been turned by a woman
named Sasha, the mother of the coven in the same way that Carlisle
fathered the Cullens.

"Oh, where is she?" I asked, and immediately regretted it -- the wince on
Tanya's face and Kate's hiss told me that this was not a pleasant story.
When Kate made that noise it spooked David and he *yowled*, backing into
a corner and cowering -- evidently he was a little afraid of her, which
only made sense, if she was in charge of keeping him contained and had
to resort to her weaponry often.

"David," sighed Kate, "it's nothing to do with you..."

While she soothed him, Tanya began to tell me the story, in clipped
tones. "The Volturi executed her and our brother, Vasilii. Her for
turning him, and him simply for being what he was."

"What he was...?" I asked.

"An immortal child," murmured Carmen, and Tanya looked away, letting the
less emotionally involved person take over. "There were many of them, at
one time. Vampires would turn children barely more than infants. And of
course they could not grow, could never mature or learn to control
themselves. They could destroy towns with temper tantrums, they were
impossible to keep from human notice, and secrecy was no less important
then. The Volturi exterminated them. But it wasn't a simple matter,
because they were so beloved -- you've seen, of course, how the
transformation affects adults, how things intensify, but can you imagine
the protective instinct generated by a cute two-year-old who's been
changed in that way? Entire covens would die to protect their immortal
children, the vampire population was diminished immensely in the course
of the destruction."

"Why did Sasha turn Vasilii?" I asked, puzzled. "And how did the coven
survive when the Volturi came for her?"

"We don't know why she did it," Carmen said. "She kept him a complete
secret -- to the point that the sisters were held ignorant and therefore
blameless, and spared punishment."

"Wait, *what*? She managed to keep an immortal child secret from *her
own coven*? I thought they were uncontrollable," I said. "It's not as
though he'd sleep sometimes and she could put in appearances that way --
how could she supervise him without being conspicuous about it?"

Tanya hissed at that, which interrupted Kate's attempts to calm David;
Kate muttered something about wishing Jasper could have taken charge of
him and hauled the newborn out of the house altogether. "We don't know,"
Carmen said. "We have no idea where Vasilii came from, or why Sasha
turned him, or how old he was when they were found, or how he was kept a
secret."

"And nobody noticed that she was gone a lot or -- I'm sorry," I said to
Tanya, who swiveled her head around just enough that she'd be able to
see me out of her peripheral vision. "I've been rude -- I have this
flippant streak, it's not that I don't feel for your loss. I'm so
sorry."

Tanya pursed her lips. "We weren't as tightly knit a coven then," she
allowed. "It was before we became vegetarians... living on animals seems
to improve the ability to form close bonds. We traveled together in the
sense that we would usually be within a few miles of each other at any
given time, and touched base occasionally. We didn't live in houses like
this where we could see one another out the windows."

I nodded. Then, wishing to get away from the hurtful topic, I said, "So
what about you and Eleazar, Carmen?"

"We joined the coven after the sisters adopted vegetarianism," Carmen
said. "He was a member of the Volturi guard -"

"*What*?" There had been clues -- he'd kept referring to the Volturi
witchcraft classification system, but for all I knew that was a standard
thing, it didn't necessarily mean that he'd worked for them any more
than all librarians were personally students of Dewey. He could have
just visited them to learn all about their powers -- Carlisle had
visited, but not actually *joined the guard*. My mental image of
Carlisle's time in Volterra had me thinking of him as something like a
war correspondent, not an enlisted supporter *for the bad guys*. I'd
simply lumped Eleazar into the same bag. Now I was picturing that
gentle, patient person in one of those cowls, drifting across a floor to
touch Aro's hand...

"He was a member of the Volturi guard," repeated Carmen slowly, puzzled.
"They found it useful that he could identify witches and potential
witches with less guesswork. He wasn't one of their warriors, if that's
what you mean..."

"Oh! Oh, I see," I said, letting my eyes fly open. I pretended that this
was all that had bothered me about the notion. Carmen was *definitely
not* the place to seek ill judgment of Eleazar. "It was just... I was
surprised that a former guardmember would join a coven with the history
you just told me about as concerns the Volturi."

"We developed a very healthy respect for the law," muttered Tanya.

"Anyway," said Carmen, looking at me a little strangely, "he wasn't
entirely happy with them. He understood the importance of having and
enforcing rules, and felt he was working towards the greater good. But
he wanted to leave with me, when we met, and he did. Eventually we met
Tanya and her sisters." Carmen gestured at the blonde, who'd relaxed
somewhat once we were off the topic of her mother and secret brother.
"And never looked back. We like living this way; it suits us."

I nodded slowly. I wondered just how hard it would be to get the
Denalis' support in my project of deposing the serial killers. Maybe
Edward would have insights, but I would need to wait until the last
possible moment to ask -- although perhaps I was being paranoid, perhaps
the Volturi missed momentous events going on all over the world all the
time. Perhaps Aro was nearly as dotty as he often seemed, perhaps he
only gave crown jewels to people he didn't suspect of crimes, perhaps
he'd never read Edward again. Perhaps he had the least hazardous
possible form of mindreading, and couldn't learn anything he didn't
already suspect.

And perhaps caution *still* made sense, no matter how much I wanted to
run to Edward and tell him everything as fast as my lips could buzz and
beg for help.

Fleetingly, I missed Rachel, who could know everything because if she
were ever found, an unsalvageable part of the jig would already be up...
but it wasn't really Rachel I wanted. She was a friend, maybe over time
she'd be a great friend. But she wasn't *mine* the way Edward was.

I would finish meeting the Denalis, and then I would *fly* to Québec,
because Harry had busted a door and bled on the interior of my car and
even if he hadn't flying was *faster* and I *wanted my Edward*.

*Note to self: It is not fun to be away from Edward. It is not good for
your psychological health to be away from Edward. Do less of that.*

* * * * *

There had been a silence of a full second, long enough to be awkward for
rapid vampires. "Do you want to meet Irina?" Tanya asked.

"Yes," I said at once, "please. Her and Laurent -- I've technically met
him, but I remember so little about it..."

"Oh," Tanya said, getting up, "Laurent's not here right now. He's used
to being a nomad; he's in and out a lot. Irina's gotten settled over
time and usually doesn't go."

In light of the note I'd just made to myself, this was... odd.

"They're... Edward told me that they're mates, not just..." I didn't
know how to bring up the "succubus" thing gracefully. But I had
*definitely* been given the impression that it wasn't just a case of
Irina trying out a not-so-warm-and-soft boy toy for a novel diversion.

"Oh, they are," Tanya assured me hurriedly as she led me out of the main
house. "It's obvious, the way Irina reacted -- I don't know Laurent as
well, obviously, but these things always match up from what I've heard.
But he's... I'm not sure, actually. Some kind of introvert maybe,
although he'd been with a coven... Anyway, he isn't here, but Irina is,
and I'm sure she'll be glad to meet you."

I nodded slowly. "When is he expected back?"

"Any day now." His departures were measured in *days*? It wasn't a
matter of popping into the Yukon for an afternoon occasionally? It
didn't surprise me that he *could*. I didn't understand why he *would*.
Was he activating a tribe of Inuits who turned into giant owls,
supposing it was safer if his mate didn't know?

We reached the newest house. Irina was in it, draped over an armchair
listlessly. Her hair was blonde like her sisters', silverier than Kate's
straw-pale and more desaturated than Tanya's strawberry, and shorter
than either -- it hung just to her chin. There was an actual turntable
record player on an end table, which had a record spinning in it --
nothing I recognized, just something gently instrumental. "Hi," said
Irina, twisting her posture so she wasn't looking at us upside-down.
"You must be Bella."

"That's me," I acknowledged. "It's nice to meet you, Irina."

And then, really, there was nothing to say, because Irina had no
metapowers to give her useful information, and I'd already poked at the
family's old abcess enough, and there was no newborn convenient to
punctuate our interaction at irregular intervals.

I sat down, even though this was pointless, even though my feet would
never hurt and my knees would never creak and my legs would never sway
if I wanted to stand still for a month. Tanya stayed put, but helpfully
said, "The newborn that Bella brought us is called Harry," and then the
sisters had a trivial question-and-answer session about the new member
of the family. I ducked in now and then to fill in details that Kate
hadn't repeated in Tanya's presence, but couldn't keep my attention on
the conversation. Three or four times a second I would remember that
Edward existed, and while this was true and important and good, it was
hard to think around.

What was *wrong* with Laurent? I'd been away from *my* mate saving lives
and I'd had to do it alone because I had a power that *Laurent did not
have* which meant I could keep secrets at a level inaccessible to
others. Also, Edward existed. What was wrong with *Irina*? Why wouldn't
she insist on coming along on these trips of his? And Edward existed.

The door opened, and Laurent came in.

* * * * *

The first thing I noticed about Laurent was that he looked just like my
(feeble, human) memory of him said he should look.

The second thing I noticed about Laurent was that he looked *exactly*
like my (powerful, vampire) information said he *had* looked.

As he crossed the room, eagerly, with just enough restraint to leave the
furniture intact, and embraced a joyful Irina, I processed this
information.

His eyes were still entirely red.

He'd come to Denali months previously. I'd been a vampire for several
*weeks*. And *my* eyes had a thin ring of orange around the edges
already.

It was not, quite, damning evidence. For all I knew, a long-term human
diet took longer (much, much longer) to be diluted than the mere
starting supply of blood coloring a newborn's eyes. I could easily learn
this information from Edward, who probably had occasionally consulted
mirrors after swearing off the murder of murderers and would be able to
tell me how long it had taken him to get his gold. In case I was wrong,
I didn't even need to pose a question that made me sound unduly
suspicious; I could be all proud of my orange, start a general
conversation about vampire eyes. I had the wherewithal to check.

In the meantime, it was rather *extremely* dodgy.

To be fair, no one had as good as told me that Laurent had changed his
dietary habits. I'd assumed it would be a prerequisite for joining the
coven, that he'd do it for Irina. But Irina wasn't likely to be any less
influenced by him than he was by her, and the taste of human blood was
supposedly an overwhelmingly powerful sensation. It wouldn't have
astounded me if he'd *slipped* once, twice, more, if his new family had
forgiven *that* -- but if he was gallivanting off on long trips without
his vegetarian mate, for days at a time, that screamed calculation...

But I said nothing, I pasted a smile on my face and waited for Laurent
and Irina to finish their hug that could probably have crushed coal into
diamonds, I politely reintroduced myself when he'd set her back down on
the ground and turned his attention to me.

Laurent, too, received the mostly-fake story of Harry; he too expressed
his enjoyment in meeting me; and once, I saw Tanya flick her gaze to his
eyes, frown infinitesmally for a sliver of a moment, and abruptly bring
up an obviously recurring tease about Irina's choice of music playing
equipment.

Also, my brain reminded me helpfully, Edward existed.

I had met all the Denalis, there were no further mysteries or werewolves
that I needed to poke at or activate in this time zone, and I wanted to
go.

I made my excuses. I ducked into Carmen and Eleazar's house to
(carefully, avoiding anything that might cause alarm) bid Harry goodbye
and make sure he had all the contact information he might need. I ran
out into the wilderness, called around to a few airlines, and bought a
flight to Montréal that I could just barely make.

I forced the busted door of my car onto its hinges, clamping metal onto
more protesting metal until I thought it would stay put during the drive
to the airport. I folded down the ragged edges of the hole as best I
could. The window was a loss, but having a rear window missing wouldn't
get me pulled over. I inspected my handiwork, decided it would have to
do for the upcoming drive, and started out.

I sped. Near the airport, I waited for a moment when the highway was
deserted before steering off the road; the car rolled over several
times, acquiring enough damage to cover the strange hole and
finger-shaped crush marks in the door. I kicked it a few more times for
good measure after worming my way out, then ripped off the license
plates and other identifying tags, which I buried under a small tree
that I picked up and replanted.

I did feel slightly odd about deliberately destroying a functional car
that could have just been cleaned and had the one door replaced and then
been fine. Overriding this uneasiness was the fact that I felt very
strongly that I needed to be in Québec sooner rather than later. I
couldn't think of a nice way to give the Denalis such a damaged object
as a gift -- "Here, take the car that the newborn I just saddled you with
took a chunk out of because I don't want to drive it home". Rosalie was
not on the correct continent to fix the car, and auto body repair wasn't
a skill I had. I had no realistic intention to pick the thing up from
any shops I could leave it at in Alaska. And if I just abandoned it at a
junkyard or somewhere else, however anonymous I rendered it first, the
nature of the damage as it had been would be transparently unusual to
anyone getting a decent look.

My clothes were something of a mess at this point. I didn't exactly look
bloodstained and like I'd just suffered a car crash -- but I did look
like I'd gone a bit too long without a change of clothes and possibly
like I'd obtained my current set by stealing them from their previous
hobo owner. I found a dismal little store, bought a new outfit (clothing
retailers were going to learn to recognize my credit card number on
sight), put in new contact lenses, and proceeded on foot to the airport.

Once in the building, I promptly wished that I'd hunted more recently,
but I didn't need to breathe much after checking in and getting through
security via typical awkward "I have weird bioelectricity" rigmarole. On
the plane I held my breath, pretended to nap, and moved my shoulders
occasionally to make it look to the flight attendants and my neighbors
like I was drawing in air.

I seriously considered stealing a car when I got off the plane in Québec
City. I could note the plate number, get Jasper to look up the pertinent
details with his computer hacking skills that might as well have been a
second witchy talent, and mail its owner a fat check later, and it would
be so much faster than bothering with a rental, which I would have to
return later... I didn't have a way to pick a car that wouldn't be
urgently needed when its owner arrived to use it.

Somebody else might be trying to get home to *their* Edward.

Or need to go to work or something like that, but my brain was very
insistent that everything be about Edward. I gritted my teeth and
tolerated the rental process, stumbling through it with inadequate
French until the clerk let on that he knew English. There was not enough
attention left in my head to be annoyed with his delayed language
switch. I wanted to go, and it could not in any way make that happen
faster if I were to chastise this inconsequential human for poor
customer service.

I drove as fast as I could without running an unacceptable risk of being
pulled over. (I wasn't like Edward, with a built-in police scanner...) I
hadn't learned to read the traffic patterns and note the sort of slowing
that came with a cop car in the area.

It was dark when I got to the house. As soon as I opened the door I
could hear Gianna snoring. I didn't give her another thought beyond that
for the next seven hours, which I spent *not* a thousand miles away from
*my Edward* who not only existed, but was also every bit as pleased to
see me as I was to see him.

* * * * *

Gianna was an early riser; I heard her getting up and starting to move
around only a few minutes past dawn. Then she called her brother, who
she spoke to in Italian that I could half-follow; I asked Edward and he
translated the rest. It was easier to learn the language listening to a
naturalistic conversation in it, and Gianna didn't mean for the
conversation to be private if she was having it in the house.

It sounded like Ilario was handling vampirism better than Harry, but a
little worse than me. Alice hadn't yet given the green light to test him
near a human, but had indicated that she'd deem it safe "real soon now".
He talked to Gianna at some length about how easy it was for the world
around him to distract him, how strange hunting was and how unpleasant
animals tasted. He had nice things to say about the portion of my family
still in Norway.

He was dealing with some minutiae about getting his possessions and
paperwork handled in Volterra -- Carlisle had found it necessary to let
out officially that Ilario was dead. However, Ilario was hoping that he
could go back to living in Italy once he was shown capable of tolerating
human presences, probably not in Volterra proper but possibly near Rome.
He'd been informed of Gianna's agreement to serve as a surrogate mother,
but wanted her to join him there after this service had been discharged.

"Speaking of that," I said, leaning on Edward and interrupting his
translation, "it probably won't be long before we can send Gianna to
Norway again and then run around South America looking for
half-vampires."

Edward smiled and kissed the crown of my head. "Is that what you want to
do next?"

"Since I already met the Denalis, yeah, that seems to be next," I said.
And that reminded me of Laurent, and his eyes. "Hey, have you noticed
anything different about me?" I asked, attempting to sound perky and
proud of myself.

"Hmm," said Edward, placing his hands on my face to move it into a
convenient location for inspection. I laughed while he made an
exaggerated show of peering at my features, and then he said, "Of course
I saw your eyes, Bella. You're right on schedule. They'll be completely
gold in just a few months."

I grinned, kissed him, and said, "Is it the same schedule for vampires
who ate humans first and then stopped?"

"Considerably faster, actually," said Edward, and my lips compressed.
"I'm sure you've noticed that your eyes don't go black. Well, you
haven't gone long enough without hunting to really see them go *black* --
that takes a week or two and you've been very careful -- but they don't
darken, because you're a newborn and still using up the supply of your
own human blood. A black-eyed vampire who eats an animal will
immediately turn gold-eyed; a non-newborn who has eaten humans and has
the burgundy colored eyes, who then switches to an animal diet, might
take a few days."

Yep.

Laurent was killing people. The Denalis all knew it, with the possible
exception of David and likely exception of Harry (however temporary
these exceptions might be). They weren't doing anything about it. They
might or might not be aware that I knew.

Now, what was I going to do about that?

* * * * *

Quickly rifling through my information, I decided that there was little
or no risk associated with telling Edward about Laurent. The Denalis had
made no attempt to swear me to secrecy. The Volturi would certainly not
care if Laurent was eating people as long as he covered his tracks,
which he likely was, so there was no special danger from them if his
transgressions became known.

Finally, a problem I didn't have to attack without Edward.

"But I saw Laurent at Denali," I said. "His eyes were still red."

Edward stilled, then held me a little tighter. He didn't look shocked,
just protective. The information was not alarming to him -- but he
realized it might be so to me.

Then again, Edward classed his meta-killing, the slaughter of murderers,
on approximately the same moral level as picking an arbitrary person off
the street for no special reason and eating them. I tilted my head back
to look at his face -- yes, there was that familiar guilty look, begging
my forgiveness like I was a divine being of some kind. If I judged
Laurent aloud now, without assuaging that, he'd think I was classing
them together.

"I don't think he's just slipping up," I went on, and I described the
indications that he was planning extended hunting trips. "And he doesn't
have a convenient way to make sure he's only eating people who were
about to hurt someone." I snuggled closer to Edward. "I suppose it's
*possible* that he's doing some kind of detective work and trying to
find unsavory targets that way, but it doesn't seem likely..."

"You're right," said Edward heavily, "it doesn't."

"David might have no idea, and Harry almost certainly doesn't, yet," I
said. "But the others have to know. *They* all still have gold eyes, so
unless I came at a really odd time and they're *omnivorous* or whatever
the euphemism would be for a mixed diet, it's just him. Why are they
putting up with it?"

Edward spoke slowly, measuring his reply. "There's a few possible
reasons... First, there's essentially no way they can *control* Laurent.
You can't put a vampire in prison. It wouldn't be any significant
deterrent to try to fine him or anything. The only way to make a vampire
act, or not act, against his will, is by violence or the threat of it."

"Kate could take him," I said.

"I'm sure Kate alone, or any two or three of the others, could take him
in a fight," Edward agreed. "But it's not a live option even if we
assume they have no qualms about harming Laurent himself. If they hurt
Laurent, they hurt Irina -- possibly literally; she might back him in a
physical confrontation. You remember how I reacted when Jasper was
trying to talk about manhandling you during your first exposure to a
human? That was when you were *demanding*, in so many words, that Jasper
be allowed to rip your arm off if it would save 'your experimental
subject' and I barely managed to tolerate it. And I'm not sure what I
would have done if he'd *actually* had to injure you. Laurent wouldn't
be likely to reason with Irina in that way, so to attack him they'd have
to contend with their sister as well."

"Okay," I said, "so they won't fight her to defend humans they don't
know, but why is *Irina* tolerating it? Why isn't *she* getting him to
stop? He'd have to listen to her."

Edward chewed on this question for a couple of seconds. "Well," he said,
"the second reason is that the Denalis don't see vegetarianism in quite
the same way we do. It was Tanya's idea to call it that, actually, and I
think she considers it analogous to the plant-eating version practiced
among humans. That is, it's a personal lifestyle choice, perhaps with a
moral dimension to it, but nothing worth introducing social strife
about."

"David and Harry -" I began in horror. David's eyes had been pale
orange, but...

"They'll raise their children, so to speak, as vegetarians," Edward
assured me, squeezing my hand. "I don't think you need to worry about
David or Harry being encouraged to drink human blood any more than
Ilario is now. They won't be stopped if they decide, on their own, to
leave and join the ranks of typical vampires -- I wasn't stopped either,
for that matter -- but if they stay with the coven, they aren't likely
to. And Irina's probably not going to return to the practice herself.
But she doesn't have enough of a motivation to evangelize that she'll
risk relationship strain to argue with Laurent about it. If she did, she
probably ran out of impetus months ago and they've settled into an
uneasy compromise at this point."

"He's killing *people*," I said. "Not pigs and chickens and cows,
*people*. That's not a *lifestyle choice*, that's dead mothers and
fathers and brothers and sisters and sons and daughters -"

Edward was not happy. I sighed. "Not that I'm saying that you should go
*back* to the vigilante-justice-and-fast-food habit," I said, smoothing
his eyebrow with my thumb, "but it's different. I really do think it's
different. If I thought Laurent were capable of distinguishing good and
evil people, and choosing to eat only the evil ones who were about to
abduct children or set fire to orphanages or whatever, this wouldn't be
the most thrilling information I could learn -- but there are plenty of
higher priorities in my life than stopping killers from being killed. If
Laurent's eating bad humans, though, it's by coincidence."

Edward nodded mutely. "The third reason," he said softly, "is that there
are a *lot* of vampires in the world, and just because Laurent lives in
Denali now, it might not seem to the sisters and Eleazar that they have
more of an obligation to control him than they have to control any
vampire outside the family."

I realized that I probably sounded hypocritical to Edward, complaining
about Laurent, because he didn't know that I was laying groundwork to
overthrow the Volturi and thereby end a number of objectionable diets. I
tried to think of a way to stop sounding like that without giving
anything away. "Eleazar mentioned a friend of Carlisle's named
Alistair," I said abruptly. "I assume he's not a vegetarian either and
Carlisle calls him his *friend*."

He nodded, confirming this fact. "Well, insofar as Alistair has friends.
He's the most misanthropic individual I've ever met, and he can stand to
have a visit from Carlisle -- his closest acquaintance, as far as I know
-- about once every hundred years. There are letters a little more
frequently than that. I believe they last wrote in 1982."

"Are there any other friends of the family I should know about?"

Edward listed them: Jasper's old covenmates Peter and Charlotte. An
Irish coven, an Egyptian one, one that lived in the Amazon Basin,
solitaries Garrett and Mary and Randall in North America and the pair
Charles and Makenna in Europe. "We've *met* others, of course," he said.
"Chance meetings like our encounter with Laurent and his old coven. But
those are the ones with whom we have some ongoing acquaintance. In fact,
I think Rosalie and Emmett were thinking of going to Ireland soon to
visit Siobhan and her coven -- it used to be just the mated pair, Siobhan
and Liam, but they've added a member recently."

"And these are all... non-vegetarians."

Edward nodded solemnly. "Vegetarian vampires are very, *very* rare,
Bella. Vampires in general are merely uncommon."

"Has *any* effort been made towards deliberately convincing anyone who
eats people to stop eating people? Or is it all a matter of waiting for
them to show up by themselves -- your return, Carmen and Eleazar showing
up on the Denali's doorstep, Alice seeing herself and Jasper join up
with us and doing so?"

"There have been some gentle attempts," Edward said. "They haven't met
with much success. You don't *know* what human blood tastes like, Bella
-- it's not a small thing to ask someone to give up, when they've already
decided that they accept the cost in human life."

"*You* know what it tastes like," I said. "Esme knows what it tastes
like. Alice knows what it tastes like. Emmett knows what it tastes
like." Jasper was a bad example, so I did not bring him up. "Tanya and
Kate and Irina and Carmen and Eleazar know what it tastes like."

"Yes," Edward said heavily, "we do. Why do you think it makes it so much
harder to resist, when you have that knowledge? Gianna's downstairs
right now. I *know what she would taste like*. It takes a toll, whenever
I'm around a human, that I have to know, that I don't need to merely
*imagine* like you."

"How could it taste *that good*?" I asked, flopping dramatically
backwards onto the floor. The house was irregularly furnished like other
Cullen homes, and we were not in a room equipped with a bed -- they had
aesthetic purpose, which was why Esme's island had them, but were not
necessary for comfort during sleep or at any other time. Gianna was
lucky that there was, for some reason, one four-poster in Alice's room
here.

"To give you an idea," said Edward, "before our wedding, I asked my
brothers what to expect about the honeymoon, and Jasper's exact words
were "second only to the taste of human blood". Emmett did not disagree
with him."

I stared at him incredulously. "So you're saying that Jasper and Emmett
think human blood is better than sex. Than *vampire* sex, not the human
kind. And Jasper's never even run into a singer."

Edward nodded.

"What's your opinion on this issue?" I asked archly, striking a pose.
"Don't feel like you have to lie to spare my feelings."

My husband's eyes raked appreciatively over me and he said, "I wouldn't
have to lie to do that even if you were easily offended. I'm not sure
what I would answer if I'd ever tasted *your* blood, though."

"I wonder if Irina and Laurent would be inclined to cast votes," I said.
"Or any of the other friends of the family who have the relevant
information."

"Well, I suppose you could ask them," he said, but his attention was
clearly no longer on topic, and I didn't feel like dragging him back
towards it right then.

Europe
======

A few hours later, Gianna announced loudly that she was running low on
certain food items and needed either permission to take one of the cars
or for Edward to bring her to the store. She didn't know I was in the
building, apparently. Edward sighed, made himself presentable, and went
down to give her a set of keys. While he supplied directions to the
grocery store and counted out some Canadian dollars for her, I stared at
the ceiling and thought.

Assuming I managed to get rid of the Volturi, the power vacuum *would*
need to be filled or things would only get worse. Vampires were, as a
group, violent creatures: force unto intolerable pain or death was the
only viable threat and the only realistic means of resolving conflict,
and this had to be delivered by more vampires. (Or, I supposed,
werewolves.) There wasn't a vampire economy I could corner, influencing
its participants to behave themselves thereby. There wasn't a
significant vampire *society* in which reputation was reliably important
-- the only social connections that reliably mattered to arbitrary
vampires were mate bonds, impermeable to the vicissitudes of crime and
punishment and not possessed universally anyway.

If I had about half a dozen of Alec, and they worked for me, something
could be set up to work like a prison, without the only options for
keeping order involving actions that were themselves repulsive. But I
didn't know where to find half a dozen of Alec, let alone how to get
them on board with careers as prison guards for a vegetarian vampire
regime.

At any rate, I wasn't sure if I could beat the Volturi in a stand-up
fight even if my coven, the Denali coven, all the friends of the family,
and the entire pack of Quileutes fought at my side. I was the only one
immune to Jane and Alec, the weapons -- well, technically, illusionists --
of the guard, and I was not so personally puissant that I could expect
to defeat them all by myself. I needed more allies, ready to call into
place when they accumulated critical mass. In all probability, I
wouldn't be able to move until Gianna had had my baby and said baby had
gotten to be old enough to sanely turn -- until then, the child would be
a terrible vulnerability that my attempt at rebellion could ill afford.
So I had a while to think about where to get six of the anesthetic witch
twin, and other details of my intended administration.

It was a bitter leisure. *Murders* were going on every day, all over the
world, at the hands and teeth of hidden but otherwise unchecked
vampires. And, at an even more staggering scale, people were dying for
more mundane reasons. People like Ilario, except without his convenient
connections and massive stroke of luck, were falling prey to disease.
Age and injury and human-originated violence claimed more. Perhaps not
all of these dying humans would want the rescue of vampirism, but they
could not even be *offered that choice* under Volturi law. I could only
pluck a few from the maw of oblivion, here and there, based on *excuses*
and *chance*.

It occurred to me that I hadn't checked my e-mail in far too long, and I
found my computer. I was looking at my e-mail inbox when Edward had
finished teaching Gianna the phrases of French she'd need to buy
groceries and returned to the second floor. He didn't look over my
shoulder, just peered into the room to see what I was doing and went
elsewhere. I heard the piano's trilling notes as he played a sonata to
occupy himself.

I had several e-mails from both of my parents, which I scanned first and
then replied to together rather than individually addressing each of
Renée's dozen three-sentence news updates or Charlie's four giant
rants/expressions of affection. I gave them both good-sized replies,
telling them what little I could about what I'd been up to and padding
with nostalgia and inquiries about their lives. Since they had no reason
to expect me to be all that interesting, they were unlikely to find the
limited disclosure odd. In most people's lives, having "started to learn
Norwegian" would be the most momentous event of an entire month, let
alone week. (I didn't mention Italian, French, Portuguese, Ukrainian, or
anything else on my list. Humans did not normally try to learn that many
languages at once.)

Rachel had also sent me several e-mails, which I didn't think were
urgent because she hadn't texted, but which I opened with some
trepidation anyway.

One was an update on Sue Clearwater. After a lot of long, loud
conversations with her daughter, Sue had apparently come to the
conclusion that if Harry was *dead*, then Leah had killed him. This was
not an acceptable thing to have happened. Sue didn't want to live in a
world where her daughter had killed her husband. And so she'd decided
that Harry was not dead -- but progress beyond that was slow in coming,
Rachel reported. Sue seemed agnostic as to the question of whether
vampirism dissolved human marriage, had no clear opinion about whether
she ever wanted to see Harry again, was adamant that Leah and Seth
should not attempt to visit him (thankfully -- I didn't want the other
Denalis learning about werewolves yet), and was not one bit happy about
the entire mess. Rachel added as a footnote here that Leah was grateful
for my rescue of her father and that Seth still thought I was a "nice
vampire".

The next e-mail was what Rachel saw fit to relay to me about Harry's
electronic correspondence with his children. He did not like Denali very
much, and had trouble getting along with everyone in the coven except
Carmen and Eleazar (so it was lucky that he was in their house). This
was exacerbated by the fact that the sisters and Laurent interpreted any
display of significant emotion from a newborn as reason to become wary
and occasionally violent, trying to keep things from spiraling out of
control. But Harry did not lack for a source of significant emotion: he
missed his children. Also, he seemed more interested in soothing Sue's
discomfort than I would have predicted. Maybe she was supposed to be his
mate after all. I didn't know quite how that would manifest given that
they'd never been in one another's physical presence since he'd
*started* turning, let alone opened his eyes, but if it turned out to be
the case, I supposed I'd find out.

There was then an e-mail stating that the pack had finally, as a group,
gotten sufficiently controlled that Rachel had authorized breaking camp
and going back to living full-time in the village. The entire tribe was
cleared to know the secret, but under strict instructions from the tribe
elders and Chief Rachel not to share it elsewhere. (The elders now
included Sue Clearwater, who had taken her husband's place in his
absence, and would likely retain it even if he moved back to the
reservation due to his being a vampire.) Rachel had not run out of
money, but anticipated doing so in relatively short order and wanted
more; I called Gianna, asked her to pick up envelopes and stamps while
she was out, and looked up the French words she would need to purchase
those things. I replied to this e-mail saying I'd get a check in the
mail.

And then, after that, I read her latest message. It was about Sam,
Leah's fiancé -- but no more. There was one tribe legend I had not
happened to hear. Werewolves were supposedly prone to "imprinting" --
which was something like a unidirectional and more psychologically
unique version of vampire mating. And Sam had gone and imprinted on
Leah's second cousin Emily, who had come for a surprise visit from the
Makah reservation where she lived. This was apparently not infrequent;
growing up, Leah and Emily had been close as sisters.

Through their shared thoughts, everybody in the pack knew exactly what
had happened to Sam. Rachel described it as being like the sudden
extinction of the sun: "like there's no other light or warmth in the
world except from her," she'd written. "Being in Sam's head is really
weird because he has everybody in the pack half in love with Emily just
because he's so anchored to her. It wasn't like that before when it was
him and Leah, and that was already plenty."

However, a unique ability among the pack members -- Leah included -- to
empathize intimately with his change of heart didn't prevent it from
becoming major drama. Leah was inconsolable at the betrayal, especially
on top of her father's sudden absence due to her having lost control,
and was staying out of wolf form as much as she could manage to avoid
having to run across Sam's thoughts.

Emily had been brought into the know: imprinting overrode even Rachel's
echoey Alpha commands for secrecy, and Sam had told his imprintee
everything the moment he laid eyes on her. This did not impress her.
Emily's loyalty was to Leah, and she didn't show any inclination to
accept Sam's mystically acquired devotion. She was crashing at the
Clearwater's house to help comfort her cousin, since most of Leah's
other friends were in the pack and had trace amounts of sympathy for
Sam.

The other wolves were not thrilled about this development. Or at least,
most of them weren't. A couple thought that imprinting would be romantic
or something and looked forward to it eagerly, although legend had
indicated that it was a rare phenomenon even among wolves. But Becky was
terrified, as were the handful of other wolves who had significant
others and hadn't imprinted on them. The only way to prevent imprinting,
according to the corpus of stories available, was to not see the person
on whom one would imprint. A few of the pack had accordingly moved out
into the woods to camp out again, thereby avoiding most visual contact
with humans.

Rachel speculated that with everything going on, I might want to "stay
far, far away from Leah -- she doesn't really hate you, and she's still
grateful you saved her dad, but you're kind of turning into the herald
of all things awful in her life the way she thinks of it". Since I had
no immediate plans to go to La Push, this was fine.

I sent Rachel another reply, asking for more information on how
imprinting worked as it became available, and then I went downstairs to
listen more closely to Edward's music.

* * * * *

The following Monday, Alice's vision of Ilario's resistance to human
scent shored up. She brought home a human to waft under his nose, and
then escorted her out again unharmed, although Ilario had been
considerably twitchier and more dependent on water during the exercise
than I had with Nils. He didn't want to risk Gianna until he was surer
of himself, so he started going on excursions with Alice and Jasper in
(sparsely) populated areas of Norway. No one died. That Thursday,
Edward, Gianna, and I flew back to Europe.

"I'm going to need to apologize to whoever that car belonged to," I
remarked softly during the flight. Oddly, Edward hadn't asked at all
about what had become of it.

"It was mine," he said. "It's all right; it was hardly a favorite. I
thought you'd want something inconspicuous."

I told him the story of how the car had come to be wrecked, and he
didn't bat an eye, just approved of my careful destruction of evidence.
Sheepishly, I said, "I'd offer to replace the car, but it's not like any
of the money I've been throwing around is *mine* in a meaningful sense;
I didn't earn any of it." I had written Rachel a rather *large* check --
just a low enough figure to fly under Alice's threshold of stockbroker
terrorizing.

"It *is* yours," Edward said firmly. "You're a part of the family.
You're my *wife*. Alice handles the investments because she's uniquely
qualified and it amuses her. Carlisle holds down a paying job because he
loves practicing medicine and it's hard to do it for free in most places
with decent cloud cover. But it's shared out among all of us, and you
mustn't feel awkward about using it."

"Well, I know *you* think I should throw it around, but I haven't really
done anything to pitch in -- I don't just mean that I didn't show up with
a wad of cash in my pocket, I mean at all."

"Bella, when I turned you, we were prepared for the possibility that
you'd be unable to do anything more sophisticated than growl and hunt
for the subsequent decade," said Edward.

"A decade? Does it sometimes take that long?" I asked. "I thought it was
a year."

"Usually it's a year, but it varies," said Edward. "It would have been
surprising, but less surprising than the reality, if you'd still been
acting like a newborn in 2015."

I thought of David, pacing and frightened, and was alarmed by this
possibility, obviated for myself though it was. "Well, even so," I said.
"I'm not going to be careful about money if it's as unnecessary as all
that, fine, but I feel like I should make it known that I want to be
useful if I can."

Edward kissed my forehead and murmured in my ear. "Bella, my love, you
don't know how glad our family is to have you. Leaving aside my own
supernaturally good luck for the moment -- you are Alice's best friend.
You are a hope for Rosalie, a role model for Jasper, Esme's pride and
joy. Emmett loves your sense of humor and Carlisle admires you. *Useful*
-- you're *priceless*."

Of course Edward had to tell me I was marvelous, but he also had to tell
me the truth. I basked in the compliments and snuggled up for the long
flight.

* * * * *

Ilario did not eat Gianna when we got her home, although he didn't like
to be in the same room as her for very long at a stretch. He developed a
habit of zipping between rooms at high speed, so he could talk to her
without breathing the air she occupied. She was so overjoyed that he was
healthy and had what he wanted that she didn't seem to mind the part
where he craved her blood so much that he couldn't comfortably breathe
near her.

By the time we finished carrying luggage out of the car in which Esme
had fetched us, Emmett and Rosalie were debating whether to visit the
Irish coven by swimming or by catching a plane. (Emmett thought swimming
would be more fun, whereas Rosalie cited time and the difficulty of
packing for a sea journey.) I announced an interest in acquainting
myself with the coven, which caught Edward by surprise, although he
didn't protest. Edward was indifferent to modes of transportation, which
left me to break Emmett and Rosalie's tie. I voted apologetically for
swimming, which *would* be interesting, wouldn't have me choosing
between muteness and a throat full of fire en route, and would mean that
the trip wouldn't have to be postponed so I could hunt first. Rosalie
rolled her eyes and asked us to wait for ten minutes so she could buy a
swim cap and preserve her hair from the ravages of saltwater, and I used
the time to find a more swimming-friendly outfit than what I had on
somewhere in my giant closet. Eventually I located an actual bathing
suit, but I didn't really want to go gallivanting around Ireland in one,
so I just wore normal clothes in fabrics that probably wouldn't look
terrible after a few days in the ocean.

We all put our handheld electronics in redundant plastic bags, dove off
the nearest fjord, and started for Ireland. I was actually able to
outpace the others: in water, strength was a significant enough factor
in rapid movement that my newborn arms could pull through the water more
efficiently than Edward's. I swam ahead, and when I happened upon a
luckless orca, I ate it; they caught up to me during this process and
thereafter I kept pace.

Edward decided to teach me sign language so we could talk while swimming
underwater. It had the convenient feature that I didn't need to learn an
accent, that being the factor of language learning least affected by
vampire memory and cognitive speed (though those still helped). When I
had the alphabet mastered, he could continue teaching me words and
grammatical conventions without needing to fall back on English.

By way of vocabulary practice, he told me about the coven we were going
to visit. Siobhan was the leader, and as far as she knew she was the
oldest vampire who lived in Ireland full time. She was some eight and a
half centuries old. Liam was newer, having turned in 1800. Siobhan had
not turned him -- he'd been created by a Scottish coven making an
excursion to Ireland, and traveled with them until a later excursion saw
them run into his mate. She'd extracted him from the coven, and made her
disinclination to otherwise share the space clear, by (with Liam's help)
killing one of the Scottish vampires and chasing off the other.

Maggie was a little over 150, and had been turned after emigrating to
escape the Great Famine by an English vampire. Her creator, who had been
solitary until turning Maggie, had been motivated by a suspicion about
Maggie's witchcraft potential. This had proven correct. Maggie could
tell when people were lying. Homesickness had eventually led Maggie to
amicably part from her covenmate and return to Ireland in 1982. She'd
managed to completely miss the existence of Siobhan and Liam until ten
years later. Then they'd run into each other while simultaneously trying
to take advantage of the cover that an IRA attack could provide for
feeding. This had nearly turned into a fight: Liam wanted himself and
Siobhan to go on being the only vampires in Ireland. Maggie would likely
have run to England, enlisted the help of her former covenmate, and
fought for the territory, but Siobhan had wanted to add her to the
group.

My first thought was that of course Liam would do what Siobhan wanted if
she had the stronger preference, but Edward said that Siobhan was a
witch, too. According to him, she could *will* plans to pan out. Siobhan
herself did not consider this a talent for anything other than good
strategy, and I thought the example of Maggie's inclusion in the coven
was a weak one -- Siobhan hadn't needed to sway anyone but *her own mate*
to make it work, for crying out loud. Edward didn't have more examples
ready to hand. While he'd met Siobhan before, she didn't tend to discuss
or think about situations that could be cases of this power, and so he
was taking Carlisle's word for it; Carlisle considered the instance of
bringing Maggie into the coven the quintessential one, and hadn't
thought of any others while in Edward's range. I was curious enough to
ask Carlisle about it later, but for the time being I was skeptical.

While our route was only about eight hundred miles (plus course
corrections as needed, vertical or lateral, to avoid boats), swimming
was slower than running, and we spent almost half a day in the water.
Rosalie had wanted to land near Edinburgh and run across the larger
island, then swim the Irish Sea to get to our destination, but Edward
thought it would be too hard to avoid notice by boats or onshore
observers in Edinburgh given the time of day -- we probably could have
managed it at night.

Instead, we got out of the water near Ballycastle, and then, careful to
avoid humans, followed Emmett, who'd received instructions on how to
find the coven. They moved around, because non-vegetarian vampires
staying in one place for too long eventually attracted notice. However
well-hidden the bodies, missing persons were recorded; but two in
greater Belfast followed by three near Cork and one in Limerick plus two
in Galway and then a gaggle of tourists in Dublin didn't form a pattern
in the minds of investigators who didn't suspect vampires.

I wondered how many missing persons worldwide were *just* missing, and
how many were vampire food.

The Irish coven were outside a town called Maghera in Northern Ireland.
I hypothesized that the top bit of the island was a better hunting
ground than the rest of it because casualties were liable to be chalked
up to sporadic religious violence, but I didn't speculate aloud. Emmett
ranged ahead when we approached the designated area to find them and
explain that there were four of us, not two, and to give them fair
warning that I had newborn eyes but was not typical of newborns. He came
back, gave us the go-ahead, and led us into the wooded area where the
other three vampires waited.

* * * * *

Siobhan was a brunette, with a short and well-maintained haircut. She
was *very* tall and broad, and she moved forward to greet us with an
undulating smoothness that I considered trying to emulate before
deciding that its impressiveness depended on her size. I wondered if she
could beat Emmett in a fight and was unsure. She was barefoot, like the
others, and they were all dressed in simple outdoor wear.

Her mate, Liam, followed close behind, a grimly noncommittal expression
on his face. He didn't make any aggressive moves, but I was inclined to
watch for them anyway -- I had the impression that he wasn't happy about
the visit. He was only a little shorter than his mate, which made him
about Emmett's height. As vampires went, he wasn't particularly
attractive; he was more like Harry and David, who'd been turned for
reasons unrelating to appearance. Or, I supposed, James, who wouldn't
have looked unusually lovely even in a crowd of humans (or so I'd
written; vampire vision might have revealed something else). His hair
was a shade lighter than Siobhan's, and cut similarly to hers.

Behind the pair followed the newest member, Maggie, who was about my
size and had a smiling face wreathed in springy red curls. Except for
the telltale wine-colored eyes, she seemed very likeable. She was also
the first to speak, in a perky Irish accent. "Hello! It's good to
finally meet you!" She was addressing everyone but Emmett, who she'd
encountered moments before, but she seemed particularly interested in me
-- probably because of the Super Newborn thing. When my eyes were finally
gold I could expect to get less (although not much less) attention among
the general vampire population.

"Yes, it's been some time," acknowledged Siobhan, similarly accented. I
wondered for half a second why vampires would speak any language with an
accent, and then mentally kicked myself for assuming that sounding
American meant *lacking* an accent.

"We're not usually in Europe long enough to make visits," apologized
Rosalie.

"But aren't you all living in Norway now?" inquired Maggie. "Why is it
just the four of you?"

"There's another newborn at home," explained Edward. "He's nearly as
controlled as Bella, but not quite. It's better to leave him with
supervision." He omitted mention of Gianna, without whose presence a
smaller contingent of babysitters would have sufficed to soothe Ilario's
worries about slipping and eating her. I supposed that our hosts would
be no less likely than any other vampires to think it was strange and
suspicious that we kept a human around, and I wasn't exactly motivated
to disclose the details of why she was still human.

"That explains Jasper, and by extension, Alice," said Siobhan, "but what
about Carlisle and Esme? The only reason I've met any of you at all is
through Carlisle."

"Carlisle is still new to his job in Norway, and prefers not to ask for
time off so soon," said Edward. This was *true* -- I supposed it had to
be, if Maggie was to be present -- but not the whole story, of course.

"Well, perhaps they'll pay us a visit soon," said Siobhan.

Rosalie nodded, and there followed quite a bit of catch-up conversation:
the latest developments in our coven and theirs. Rosalie and Emmett had
taken Edward's hint about leaving Gianna unmentioned, and they didn't
know that I'd left Québec during our trip at all. Edward had
successfully kept that a secret. Bearing in mind the topics I should not
mention, I chatted away with the others. It was much easier to conduct
small talk with family present -- or maybe it was just Edward.

It was interesting, the way we stood. There was, as ever, no reason to
sit -- and no chairs that might feel neglected if we didn't, since we
were in the middle of the woods. So we were all on our feet. The Irish
vampires were in a loose V with Siobhan at the hinge, standing closest
to us. Our contingent stood in a line, but clearly divided in half;
Emmett had his arm around Rosalie and I was holding hands with Edward,
and there was about two feet between my left foot and Rosalie's right. I
wondered why Siobhan and Liam weren't touching. They'd been mated longer
than we had, which might explain it all by itself. I wondered how we'd
have arranged ourselves if the entire family had been present.

The conversation split into numerous simultaneous threads, as statements
prompted more than one possible response. We could all hear each other,
easily filtering each voice from the others, and keep track of where
everyone was looking by virtue of unblurry peripheral vision, so this
wasn't as difficult as it would have been for humans.

Maggie was mildly curious about vegetarianism, and wanted to know if
we'd tasted human blood. She seemed equally entranced by Rosalie and I,
who had not, and our husbands, who had, and interspersed her incredulous
questions with remarks to herself about how it was "all really true,
*huh*!"

Meanwhile, Rosalie had convinced Liam to break his stony silence by
talking about cars, which he liked, and Emmett was trying to persuade
Siobhan that they should spar. (Apparently Edward and Alice "cheated",
fighting Jasper got old after a while, and the others weren't usually in
the mood.) I was rather interested in acquiring at least a cursory
understanding of how to fight, but I could propose this to Emmett (or
Edward or Jasper) any time; he probably didn't often have the
opportunity to match up with Siobhan.

Eventually she relented, silencing Liam's protest with a look, and they
got some distance and sprang at each other. I watched out of the corner
of my eye, still keeping up with Maggie's questions about whether I
wasn't *just a little curious* about how humans tasted, etcetera.

"Aren't you curious how animals taste?" I asked, finally, as Siobhan
knocked Emmett to the ground and he leapt to his feet to attack again.

"Not really," said Maggie, wrinkling her nose. "They smell terrible."

"I can't say eating humans sounds like something I'd enjoy, either," I
said.

"But they taste great!" Maggie enthused.

"So I'm told," I said. "But you can't be *constantly* in the process of
swallowing their blood. You've only got so much room. Inevitably, you
spend more time not eating than you spend eating, and you would still
have to do that even if they marched by you in a convenient line and you
didn't have to hunt them or conceal evidence. According to the experts,"
I tilted my head towards Edward, "eating human blood makes it harder to
*not be eating* at any given time between meals. So I'm making the
non-eating parts of my life more comfortable by forgoing some extra
yumminess when I eat."

Maggie blinked at me, and Liam actually let out one low *ha* of a laugh.
"That's something," he put in. "Carlisle's all about *compassion* and
*respect for human life*, and you have an actual reason."

"I'm a big fan of compassion and respect for human life *too*," I said,
"but if those things mattered to you, you'd already be vegetarians. It's
not like you've been living in ignorance of the fact that we can live
off animals and were only waiting for this information before swearing
off a human diet; you've known Carlisle for a while."

"But *how* do you resist?" exclaimed Maggie. "Perhaps that's a reason to
do it, but *how*?"

"Don't you ever go someplace where you can't eat the nearest human
*right then*? Walk into some town where there's 50 of them in one place,
and you'd have to either kill them all, which would be conspicuous, or
kill only some of them, which would also be conspicuous?" Of course they
had; Maggie nodded. "So you can clearly refrain from eating humans," I
said. "You don't need me to tell you how."

Maggie looked vaguely puzzled, but then asked about how animals tasted,
which was promising; Emmett even shouted a remark about the superior
flavor of ursine creatures in between being used to knock a tree over
and successfully depriving Siobhan of one of her feet. Liam clenched his
teeth very tightly at that, but Siobhan (while evidently in considerable
discomfort) just picked her foot up off the ground without even yelling
and attached it to her ankle again. After about a second, during which
Emmett graciously did not pounce, the injury knitted, and then she was
in motion again.

"I like killer whales best," I put in, when Liam had relaxed marginally.
"Hunting in the water is fun -- the whales are designed to move in the
ocean, and while I can do it, it's not what I'm best at. So there's an
element of challenge that there isn't to hunting land creatures. Of
those, though, I liked the wild boar I ate once."

"Coyotes," supplied Rosalie shortly, half-smirking.

"There's all kinds of variety," said Edward dryly. "Mountain lions,
here."

"I'm really looking forward to being able to go about in public without
contact lenses," I said.

"I just tell everybody I have weak veins in my eyes and they keep
bursting," said Maggie. "Or I say that the red is because of contacts
anyway. Or I make up something in fake Latin like 'iris crimsonus' and
act like I'm really sensitive about it if anyone gets curious. I ask
them if they know what it means, and if they know it's not real Latin
then I kill them." She shrugged.

"Sunglasses," said Liam shortly.

"I've done sunglasses before," I acknowledged. "Useful things, but
anytime we'd be outside so anyone would notice, *sun*glasses are a bit
odd."

"More fake Latin," advised Maggie. "You have a condition that makes your
eyes really sensitive to light. I think that might actually be a real
thing."

I sort of liked her, in spite of the part where she killed people. I was
beginning to see how my family could have acquired red-eyed friends. It
didn't take the same personality, in a vampire, to kill people that it
did in a human. A human who murdered was opposing culture and instinct,
risking social censure and societal repercussions from every angle. A
normal human had to be put in an unusual context like war, or subjected
to enormous stress, before becoming willing to kill.

A normal *vampire*, though, was fitted with a different set of natural
impulses. Was normally lifted entirely out of their human context and
could not safely continue human relationships (and would be most likely
to form new relationships with vampires who already ate people). Did not
face significant danger in the process of hunting, as long as they were
careful. Had been *put* in the sort of context that might make a normal
human turn dangerous, complete with a label that generally meant
"killer" and the ability to live up to it with impunity.

I was the luckiest vampire in the world. I'd walked in with my eyes
open, kept hold of my original ties, and landed in the laps of a family
that didn't eat people. Carlisle was the impressive one who'd managed it
with no help, no precedent, no support, no ability to write home to his
human relatives.

But at any rate, the personality types of killer vampires weren't the
same as killer humans. Maggie was a perfectly likable person. And when
someone saw through her fake Latin, she killed them, that was all.

I was very tempted to make the entire conversation about converting
Maggie, to retrieve it from the tangent it began to drift off on about
some *real* Latin that Edward helpfully produced from his medical school
days. Maybe the next human Maggie met wouldn't die of excess education.
I decided against it. It could just as easily make things worse, and she
was already *curious*, which was something.

* * * * *

Eventually Emmett invited me to join the brawl without prompting, and I
agreed. He knocked me around, but more gently than he had Siobhan. I
tried not to rely too much on my excessive strength, which would be gone
soon enough. Instead I learned which instincts were useful and which to
suppress, a few things about distinguishing feints and genuine attacks
and how to dodge, and fascinating tricks with leverage. Siobhan also
took a turn, and her style was noticeably different from Emmett's -- he
was playing, and she was doing something more like parkour.

It was fun, and although periodically it hurt rather a lot, I had the
sensation that I was learning very efficiently. Learning to fight by
sparring wasn't linear, like reading a book and (however quickly)
absorbing each word in sequence. The rapid immersion in combat let me
engage almost all of my mind on the same task. Every sense had something
to tell me about my partner and my environment; all of my muscles could
be doing something useful; I needed to model my opponent's strategy and
think of a move that he or she hadn't thought I'd make, often stacking
up levels of obviousness quite deep and still sometimes being found
predictable. It was wholly engaging.

All of this bothered Edward immensely, and after Siobhan clocked me
across the ear hard enough that it stopped processing sound for a few
seconds, he quietly asked me to stop. I went back to his side and he
gathered me into a hug. Rosalie snorted.

"Aw, but she's good at this," protested Emmett.

"Later," said Edward tightly. "Not here."

"Siobhan's got a different style..." I said.

He gritted his teeth. "I know," he said. "So does Jasper. You can
practice at home if you like." I wondered if Siobhan had thought
something in particular, or if he just didn't trust her. Liam looked
relieved that she appeared to be done, though, and she went back to
stand by her coven with a shrug. Maggie looked briefly wistful.

I tilted my head at her, inviting her to explain this. "Oh," she said.
"Just, I wish *my* mate would hurry up and find me."

"If you don't ever leave Ireland, are you very likely to run into him?"
I inquired.

Maggie considered this. "Her," she corrected absently. No one, even my
husband from 1901 with oh-so-traditional values, reacted to this. I
decided to inquire about that later. "Well, I traveled more before I
joined this coven," she said at last. "And I didn't find her then
either."

I couldn't resist. "Maybe you ate her."

Siobhan rolled her eyes, but Maggie looked genuinely horrified. "What?
That couldn't happen."

"Of course it could," I said. "I was human when I met Edward. Not only
that," I added with relish, "I was his *singer*. It's lucky that he had
so much practice *not eating humans*. Otherwise I would have been toast.
Delicious, dead toast."

Maggie looked scared. I wasn't sure if that was good or not, so I backed
off a little. "You most likely haven't met her yet, though." I hesitated
for a beat, letting the redheaded vampire calm down, and added, "But
that doesn't mean she's a vampire."

"Nnng," whined Maggie.

Rosalie chuckled darkly and threw in a barb of her own: "Emmett was
human when I found him, too." She paused. "And absolutely *covered* in
fresh blood."

"Esme was human when Carlisle met her," put in Edward; I wasn't facing
him, instead studying Maggie's face, but I heard a smile in his voice.

Eventually Maggie announced, "Well, maybe I'll just eat men," which was
not really the solution I'd had in mind, but at least she'd found the
possibility compelling. Siobhan sighed but didn't have an interest in
encouraging Maggie to be an equal-opportunity predator, and Liam had
lapsed into silence again.

The conversation turned to other things, and after about two days, we
were done visiting. Siobhan graciously allowed that we might spend a
while touring Ireland before going home. So we ran from place to place
on the island for a bit, looking at the major attractions. "This part I
can tell my parents," I remarked. "Ireland is totally a normal part of a
tour of Europe."

"If you want, we can look at more of Europe before we go to South
America," offered Edward.

"Let's go to Wales and England and Scotland on our way home," I decided,
"and then I want to hang out there for a while, just like a week, we've
spent so little time actually *with* our family. Then South America."

Of course he had no problem with this, and so while Emmett and Rosalie
swam directly back to Norway after they'd had their fill of Ireland,
Edward and I swam east and he spent five days showing me around. He'd
been there before, but most of his knowledge came from Carlisle, who'd
been born in London. None of the specific locations that had been
important to Carlisle's human life were still in their original form,
but it was interesting to wander around the city with this information.
I wondered if Chicago, Edward's birthplace, would feel similar if I went
there.

* * * * *

We were wandering the streets of Glasgow (me in contact lenses) when I
decided to ask Edward why Maggie's correction hadn't elicited a
reaction. "Given that you're from 1901, and have used this as an excuse
to have outdated values before," I said. I kept my voice high and fast;
passing humans wouldn't notice anything but a couple looking into each
other's eyes and walking together.

"Well, first of all," laughed Edward, "my outdated values, as you call
them, apply to *me*. It's not my business whether anyone else obeys
them. You haven't heard me complaining about the conduct of the succubus
triplets -- I suppose it's down to Tanya and Kate, now -- have you?"

"That's true," I acknowledged. "And second of all?"

"Second of all, vampires in general don't have much choice but to be
relaxed about that in particular," he said. "There's simply nothing to
argue about. Just like with Laurent's eating habits, the choices are
permission or violence. There's no legal policy to argue. No social
pressure or ethical argument that could ever practically compete with
the mate bond. You might have noticed that vampires don't go in for
organized religion or, even in opposite-sex couples, have children, so
the traditional arguments are moot anyway. There's no reason for anyone
to go to the trouble of trying to keep a vampire away from her mate,
even if the mate's also a woman. It would be very troublesome and have
no point."

"Okay," I said. "But apart from the fact that you aren't going to fight
Maggie to the death over it, do you have 1901-shaped feelings on the
matter?"

Edward shrugged. "Not really. It wasn't something I gave any thought to
as a human. That was hardly the hot-button issue at the time. When I was
turned, everyone was busy thinking about the Great War -- World War I --
and the flu pandemic. So I didn't enter the vampire world with
preconceptions on the subject to set in stone. It's not my cup of tea,
but then, you are the only cup of tea in the world for me." He picked me
up by the waist and spun around, then set me back down on the sidewalk;
some watching humans *awwwed* at the display of affection.

I decided this was satisfactory. And then an unrelated question occurred
to me: "Am I immune to Maggie's power?"

That brought Edward up short. "I don't know. You didn't lie to her, as
far as I know..."

"I didn't," I confirmed. "Unless sarcasm or speculation or just being
mistaken counts...? How sensitive is she?"

"Not very," he said. "While it's possible for someone very good at
controlling their thoughts or very immersed in their duplicity to lie to
me, and she'd catch most such deception, I'm more effective overall than
she is. She doesn't detect anything at all unless someone deliberately
states something they want her to believe which they think is false. If
they don't know she's listening, or they're confident they're right, or
they think she'll notice that they're uncertain or making a joke instead
of trying to share definite information, nothing happens."

"So if I'm immune to her she wouldn't have noticed," I said, nodding to
myself. "I wish I'd thought to test it there."

"Do you expect to need to lie to Maggie?" Edward asked, and then he
shook his head. "You don't have to answer that."

"It's okay," I said. "I don't expect to need to lie to her, but it would
be interesting if I found out that I could, or couldn't. I want to know
more about how my power works, so I can make it get better. If I didn't
start out immune to Maggie, learning how to develop that would be useful
practice. I guess I'll just work on hedging out Jasper to start. Not
because I expect to *need* to, just because I want to know how to
improve." I tilted my head curiously. "Have you gotten any better at
reading minds since you turned?"

"Not in the way you probably have in mind," he said. "Since I can follow
familiar voices at greater range, it did improve in the sense that I
could hear Carlisle from one mile away to begin with and two later and
almost five now, but I'm not any better at hearing new people I meet.
And it's still just surface thoughts as it's always been."

"Have you tried to work on that at all?"

"Not really. I do have some qualms about invading people's privacy," he
said, smiling faintly. "In cases where need overwhelms those concerns,
the level of discernment that I started with has been serviceable. I did
try a little to hear something from you, but failed utterly, and you've
made it clear that you don't want me to succeed -- so I stopped working
on that."

"Fair enough," I replied.

Hybrid
======

It was more than a week into the month of August when we swam back to
Norway. When I checked my e-mail, there was a small heap of messages
from my parents and Rachel -- and, interestingly, one from Angela. I was
so surprised to get an e-mail from her that I opened it first. It was
sweet and postcard-like. She was still in Forks for the summer, and
wanted to make known her hopes that I was having a nice time in Europe.
I replied and told her what I could about Norway, Ireland, the U.K., and
Italy, and mentioned -- since unless Charlie had told everyone, she
didn't know -- that I had eloped and likely wouldn't be returning to
school in the fall. I sent her three wedding photos that Alice had
Photoshopped to make me look pinker, and asked her if she'd do me the
favor of notifying Jessica and our other friends.

Then I tackled the e-mails from my parents -- more of the same, really,
but I dutifully compiled the recent tourism data for their reading
pleasure. Renée was mostly adjusted to life in Florida, where my
stepfather had gotten signed earlier in the year. She missed Phoenix but
liked Jacksonville pretty well, and was already cycling through the
locally available diversions and hobbies. She and Phil were still
getting along very well.

Charlie, meanwhile, was starting to worry about Harry. Since he
obviously could not be told what had really happened to his friend, and
yet could also not be invited to the funeral that he'd expect to attend
if Harry were dead, he was being fed a confused jumble of vague
misinformation.

I'd turned the Denalis' latest addition in mid-July; it was becoming
awfully suspicious that in the weeks since, Harry had supposedly been
visiting his aunt in Nashville, then become too sick to receive visitors
but not sick enough to be in the hospital, then become well enough to go
and see a cousin Charlie had never heard of who lived in Toronto. All of
these plane tickets, of course, being paid for by the visited relatives;
the Clearwaters were not especially wealthy, although Leah and Seth now
had some access to pack money I'd supplied. Charlie didn't appear to
suspect foul play -- Billy and Sue both were making sure of that -- but he
was very confused.

I assured Charlie, in my e-mail, that Harry was probably just fine and
there was no reason to worry -- but I didn't know what long-term solution
would work. If Harry were reported as a missing person so he could be
declared legally dead later, Charlie would certainly look for him, and
could run into wolfy or vampiric things that he shouldn't see yet. Short
of torching the Clearwater house while Sue and the kids were out of it
and Harry was supposedly inside (to eliminate the need for a body),
there was no other obvious way to give Charlie a satisfactory story. I
toyed with the arson idea, but it would be too obviously staged if the
family rescued their belongings first, and not all of those objects were
likely to be of the easily replaceable variety. They would be unlikely
to go for the idea.

Next I opened the e-mails from Rachel. Two more wolves had imprinted.
One, a teenage boy named Jared, had fallen instantly for a classmate of
his who'd turned out to have a longstanding crush on him, so that was
all sweet and convenient. Less sweetly, Quil Ateara had imprinted on
Emily's two-year-old niece Claire, another Makah. Emily was still
staying at the Clearwater house to comfort Leah, and had agreed to
babysit Claire from that location, which was how Quil had gotten a look
at her.

Rachel added, hastily, that Quil was *absolutely not* sexually
interested in the toddler, which was the only reason he still had all of
his face attached. Apparently imprinting wasn't necessarily sexual. The
pack was assuming that when Claire grew up, she and Quil would be as
happy together as Jared and his imprint, but for the time being he was
absolutely content to serve as a older brother figure. Rachel confided
to me that he let Claire boss him around very indulgently, never tiring
of her.

Leah had, at first, thought that this might mean that Sam could come to
think of Emily as a *sister*, so that Leah could have her fiancé back.
Emily and Rachel had been all for this plan, and so Sam, supernaturally
obedient to his imprint and his Alpha, had tried. Rachel didn't doubt
the sincerity of his attempt. But he'd failed; he was still *in love*
with Emily.

In a brief message, Rachel informed me that everyone in the pack was
growing like a weed. "Everybody fifteen and up looks 25 years old and on
our way to the Olympics," she told me. "The younger ones look about five
years older than they really are already, and they're catching up, and
even the kids are completely *built*. Wolf form sizes still vary by age
and size in human shape -- I'm not the biggest, just the prettiest and
the one who can boss everyone around."

Rachel's next e-mail said only, "I think Emily is wavering."

The next message said nothing more of Emily, Sam, or Leah, just told the
stories of more imprintings. One boy I hadn't met, who'd been flown in
during my drive to Denali, had apparently picked up on the Makah
pattern. His name was Victor, and he was really enthusiastic about
imprinting. He and two like-minded friends had actually run north all
the way to the Makah reservation, while Rachel was asleep and unable to
order them to stop. There, they'd wandered around looking at girls until
Victor had imprinted on one.

Thus freed from his obligation to keep the pack's information contained,
he told her everything (complete with a phasing demonstration) and
actually convinced her to visit La Push and live with him until school
started, although she would be obliged to go back home and finish her
last year of high school in September. The other two hadn't imprinted
during the excursion, and Rachel had resorted to Alpha commands to
prevent any more of that kind of foolishness. This hadn't prevented one
other wolf from (accidentally) imprinting on a Forks girl, who I didn't
recognize by name or description.

It did not escape Rachel's notice that all of the wolves who had
imprinted were male. "The dominant hypothesis," she'd written in her
latest missive, "is that we imprint on people who'll be able to pass on
the werewolf gene."

And all the female wolves had stopped having periods.

Rachel passed this information to me clinically, but I could imagine
that it wasn't being taken with such calm by all of the female half of
the pack. With menstruation had gone the ability to have children -- or
so they strongly suspected. I could guess *why*, biologically, this
would be the case. It would not do a fetus any good at all to be
subjected to violent transformations between shapes. Small children with
the gene couldn't activate; presumably they also lacked the ability in
utero. Miscarriage would be inevitable. Male wolves, on the other hand,
would be perfectly able to sire offspring. None of this was likely to
ease the blow to the girls.

I promptly wrote back. While they couldn't safely carry children, that
wasn't necessarily a reason to suspect that all of their eggs were
non-viable. Secrecy, including from my own family, was still important,
but in a few years I could be in and out of medical school and equipped
to personally do for the pack what Rosalie had done for me. (If, in that
time, discretion became unnecessary or impossible, then one of the
existing Cullen doctors could handle the task.) Individual wolves who,
for some reason, valued the ability to bear their own children more than
the ability to never age could quit their wolves. At that point, they
would probably pick right up where they'd left off, reproductive
capacities and all.

While I wrote my reply to Rachel, another e-mail appeared. This one,
surprisingly, was from *Harry*.

He wanted to know how I'd become sure that I could handle being around
humans. I sympathized with his impatience -- not only had he been thrown
into vampire-hood without warning, he wasn't getting along well with
most of his coven. So I summarized all the tips I'd collected, my
self-tests with my old human-smelling clothes, and the trial we'd
devised with Nils. I gave him Alice's e-mail address and a summary of
her power, and suggested that he ask her to see if he'd be safe to try.
Given a green light from her, all that would be needed would be for one
of the longstanding Denalis to take David safely away and another to
bring in a Nils-equivalent.

I also recommended he get in touch with Ilario, whose contact
information I realized I did not have. I poked my head out of the
window, asked Esme -- the first person I saw -- for his e-mail address,
and added it in an endnote to my reply to Harry. I reminded him not to
tell Alice or Ilario that he was Quileute, and further advised that he
not even use his last name with them lest Edward pick something up and
recognize the family.

Before I hit "send", it occurred to me that everyone in my family but
Edward thought that I'd spent my entire detour to North America simply
hanging out in Québec, less the time it had taken me to encounter, turn,
and transport Harry. They'd assume he was Canadian. The Denalis and
Edward thought that I'd brought Harry up from Seattle, which was still
off, but too close for comfort. The Denalis knew Harry's last name but
not what it meant; everyone in my own coven would know who the
Clearwaters were except Ilario and maybe Alice and Jasper.

If Harry started e-mailing people other than me and his fellow
Quileutes, some informational cross-contamination would happen. It was
already likely, if one of the Denalis called him "Harry Clearwater" in
correspondence to my family or mentioned where he'd come from, but there
was nothing I could do about that without *telling* them to keep it on
first-name terms, which was a greater risk than just crossing my fingers
about that leak.

I didn't have to make it worse, though. I deleted my last paragraphs.
Instead, I wrote that Harry should look for solitary hikers with
someone's supervision, and very firmly make up his mind that he would
immediately tell *me* if he slipped up and ate someone, and that *I*
would resolve that if he told me of this event, I would...

I tried to think of something flashy that Alice would definitely tell me
about if she saw me doing it, which she'd definitely see if it was to
happen. Eventually I decided that if Harry killed someone, I'd pick a
fight with Ilario. I didn't think we were likely to squabble otherwise,
so I would probably not get a false signal. But it was the sort of thing
Alice would notice and try to head off if she saw it, while not being
sufficiently bizarre behavior for a couple of newborns that I would be
obviously faking. I explained to Harry that if Alice gave me this
warning, I'd warn him in turn that his test wasn't going to go well and
he should put it off. *Then* I hit "send".

My e-mail thus taken care of, I went to locate Emmett and get another
fighting lesson.

* * * * *

Emmett started getting cocky after a couple of hours of flinging me into
treetops and making Bella-shaped impressions in the ground, so I quit
reining in my strength. I was trying not to depend on it, since it
wouldn't stay with me, but it was available for the time being as a tool
to wipe Emmett's smirk off his face. I grabbed him and, holding him too
tightly for him to escape, stuck him into the dirt headfirst, all the
way up to his knees. This made a spying Alice snicker.

Emmett lost no time in wriggling his way out of the ground, but he was
absolutely covered in soil and looked perturbed. "I'm a newborn," I
reminded him sweetly.

"Arm-wrestle him!" cried Alice. "I'll get you a rock to use as a table,
hang on!" She zipped off into the woods and came back with a boulder
four times her size. "Here!"

"What's the point? I'll win," I said.

"Will not," challenged Emmett.

"Emmett, that's ridiculous. I've been a vampire for less than two
months. I'm sure you'll be able to beat me at any contest of strength
you care to name this time next year, but now?"

"Come on," he goaded, getting into arm-wrestling position with his elbow
on the rock. I rolled my eyes and clasped hands. Alice counted down, and
Emmett started pushing.

I could definitely *tell* that he was pushing -- he probably could have
shoved his arm shoulder-deep through solid granite with the force he
applied. But my arm didn't move. It wasn't hard to keep it still.
Vampire muscles didn't react to physical challenges in the same way.
While there were things too heavy for us to pick up, attempting to lift
them, or slightly lighter objects, did not cause *strain* or any sort of
fatigue. So I sat there, looking innocently at Emmett, as he gritted his
teeth and pushed harder. My arm still didn't move.

We'd collected more spectators; an amused Edward had come to the yard,
presumably following someone's thoughts, and Rosalie and Jasper were
looking out two windows of the house. Ilario peered out a window and
then left the house to watch from a better vantage point. "Let me know
when you're ready for me to break this rock with your forearm," I told
Emmett mildly.

He pushed even harder, but I compensated automatically. "Rrr," he said.

"This isn't nearly as fun as sparring," I complained. "Do you really
want to sit here all day? Just tell me when you're done, and then I'll
win. But since you wanted to do this, I'd hate to deprive you of your
fun before you say so... not that I can tell what you see in this
activity..." I tilted my head, looking curiously at our joined hands as
though trying to figure out what might be interesting about them.

Edward laughed, and Alice tittered. I was being a little mean, obliging
Emmett to say he wanted to lose before allowing the contest to end, but
the look on his face was so much fun. I blinked at him patiently.

Suddenly, Emmett grinned and let his arm go limp all at once.
Unprepared, my arm slammed forward and drove his into the rock, but on
his terms. I laughed with everyone else.

"Want to try me?" Ilario asked me.

I had not spoken to Ilario at all since he'd turned, and only a handful
of sentences before that. I'd left right after he'd been injected, and
stopped in Norway only briefly to drop off his sister -- who monopolized
his time -- before jumping into the ocean and swimming to Ireland.

"Hm," I said. "You're newer than I am -- how much does that matter?"

Jasper, resident newborn expert, opened his window and hopped out,
falling twenty feet and landing neatly. "Very little," he said. "But
it's not nothing. Either of you could win, but I'd bet on Ilario."

Ilario was a tall, skinny guy, not particularly burly, but I hadn't
brought special physical prowess into my vampire life either. Unlike
with Emmett, who I'd known I could beat, I was honestly curious about
the outcome. "Sure," I said. "The rock is a little beat up on this
side..." I turned it over, pressing it into the ground so it wouldn't
wobble, and put my arm in place.

Ilario walked up, eyeing my arm appraisingly, and took hold of my hand.
Alice counted again.

The difference was immediately obvious, and my arm twitched backwards
half a centimeter before I brought more power to bear and held my own.
Ilario looked very focused and calm as he pushed my hand.

I decided to just go all out, and forced my arm to push as hard as it
physically could. Ilario matched me, and then some; my arm leaned, bit
by bit, towards the rock. Clearly he was stronger than I was, but that
didn't necessarily mean he'd win... I relaxed my arm for a fraction of a
second, and it shot towards the rock, but Ilario reduced the strength of
his attack in response, and just before my knuckles hit stone, I pushed
back with maximum power and had our arms perpendicular to the rock
before he reacted and stopped me cold. It was back to a near-stalemate
in his favor.

"Not going to fall for that again," laughed Ilario, good-naturedly.

"No?" I didn't have any more tricks, and I sighed as he forced my arm
down to the rock, millimeter by millimeter. I didn't let go like Emmett
had, and so the back of my hand just brushed the boulder very lightly,
and then he'd won.

"Congratulations," I said; he extracted his hand and I swept a little
rock dust off of mine. Jasper nodded to himself and Emmett looked
pleased.

* * * * *

Other than the arm-wrestling, my week of downtime in Norway was
pleasantly uneventful. I got to know Ilario, who was a pleasant fellow,
very careful and deliberate in his choices and protective of Gianna. I
spent a lot of time with Edward in our cottage, dined exclusively on
killer whale, and got to be conversationally fluent in Italian. I
explored the countryside around our house, sometimes with Edward or
other family, sometimes all by myself.

Harry e-mailed; I opened the message nervously, worried that Alice had
missed the tussle I would have to provoke with Ilario in response to a
tragic failure. But Harry had successfully gotten within ten feet of a
hiker, with Carmen along to check his movements, and not done the man
any harm. He thanked me for my help. In a P.S. at the end of the
message, he apologized for having acted so afraid of me; via e-mail no
one seemed like a person to him, and so I didn't stand out as scarily in
the remote medium.

I kept abreast of the goings-on in La Push. Rachel was nervous about
what would happen when school started up again for the Makah who Victor
had found. She didn't think that the boy would hold up well without his
imprint. Claire, too, would eventually have to return to the Makah
reservation; her parents, while moderately neglectful, were not complete
absentees. They'd expect Emily to return her charge eventually, and then
Quil would be alone. For her own part, with no way to hand off Alpha
responsibilities to someone else, Rachel was arranging with her school
to do everything long-distance come autumn. She might need to go to
Spokane to sit exams at the end of each semester, but could otherwise
expect to keep up while based in La Push.

I found occasion to ask Carlisle what evidence beyond Maggie he had for
Siobhan's witchcraft. It wasn't impressive at all. In fact, that was the
strongest example he had. Every other case gave Siobhan lots of time to
lay complex groundwork. I announced that I was in Siobhan's camp as far
as the nature of her talent: she just planned well. Until she and
Eleazar were in a room together and he said otherwise, or she pulled off
something more impressive than getting Liam to put up with a new
covenmate, there was no reason to consider her a witch. Carlisle smiled
agreeably and said that this was fine, which frustrated me, but didn't
seem worth having a long argument over; I went and watched Esme pour
cement in the basement instead.

After a week at home, as specified, I was ready to go to South America
and hunt for half-vampires. I informed Edward of this, and he happily
booked us tickets. A few hours later, we were flying over the Atlantic
again, hoping to find out if our potential child was mythical or
possible.

* * * * *

"I confess I have no idea how to go about looking for half-vampires," I
told Edward, in Portuguese, as we walked away from the airport. I'd
spent the trip studying the language, since we had no textbooks handy on
any other tongues that the obscure tribes we could wind up talking to
might use. Using translators would be ill-advised, given the sensitive
nature of our search, but we could hire one to teach us a few words
without explaining what they were for and use them to elicit images in
people's minds that Edward could examine.

"I don't have much experience with it either," he replied in the same
language. "That's why we landed in Manaus instead of Rio. I thought we
could start by finding the Amazon coven and asking them if they know
anything. Humans who believe in vampires might not want to talk to you
and me, although if we dead-end with the Amazons we could try coming
back with Gianna and getting her to ask for us."

"Oh, that makes sense. Tell me about the coven?" I invited.

The Amazons were three women, all unmated, who formed an unusually close
coven and were rarely seen apart. Zafrina, the leader, was an
illusionist. Though limited to vision and unable to affect other senses,
she was still very powerful, and could compose entire scenes to supplant
whatever input one's eyes would normally supply. Edward expected me to
be immune to this talent. The other two, Senna and Kachiri, were not
witches. All three of them were on the order of five hundred years old,
as they reckoned it. They'd been turned separately, departed from their
creators separately after maturing, and then found each other a few
years later.

While they were not the only vampires in South America by a long shot,
or even in Brazil, they did have more or less undisputed run of the
Amazon River and its environs. Edward assured me, though, that Zafrina
was sufficiently confident in her ability to turn a fight to her
advantage that they could afford not to attack intruders on sight, even
unexpected ones. (They did not hold with modern technology, and could
not have been called ahead of time.) They'd recognize him and be willing
to be introduced to me, and if they couldn't or wouldn't help, they'd
let us leave peacefully.

The rainforest was not a location notable for its transportational
infrastructure, so we were on foot, with a modest amount of luggage
carried in backpacks and wrapped in plastic to keep the rain off it. The
constant rain had the effect of making it very difficult to track by
scent. We could smell things that had been nearby recently, but figuring
out where the coven had been and which direction they'd gone since was
near-impossible.

* * * * *

It took us two very scenic and damp days before we finally found them,
during which time I improved my Portuguese considerably and learned to
identify a wide variety of native wildlife. I also ate a jaguar, which
was okay. When we located the three women, they were in the middle of
eating. Edward caught the scent first, and warned me to hold my breath;
I was still untested with regards to the smell of fresh human blood. He
didn't look terribly comfortable himself, either, and quit breathing
once he had the direction; he signed, to avoid using up air, that he was
pretty sure that the blood was from the Amazons' prey.

The humans in question were all dead by the time we got there. Each of
the three Amazons appeared to have bagged one of her own -- by their
outfits, I thought they might have been loggers or something like that.
The coven, for their part, were all dressed entirely in hide and
leather, just vests and pants. They had elongated limbs and features,
like average people as seen in a funhouse mirror -- elegant tall faces,
willowy limbs and digits. All of them had braided black hair past their
waists and a slightly beige hue to their pale skin.

One of the women lifted her head from the throat of her quarry to look
at us, and I was surprised by the fact that I did not feel physically
queasy. Apparently that was a sensation vampires did not experience,
because the dead men were one of the most disturbing things I'd
personally laid eyes on. Harry Clearwater's mangled body was in the same
ballpark. Actually, he'd been torn up worse, whereas these men were
missing most of their necks but otherwise intact. But *Harry* was
walking around healthy as a horse, and the loggers never would again. I
found it unhelpful to speculate that they had been killing endangered
species. Endangered species, however photogenic, did not *think*. Their
deaths did not warrant vengeance. Even if they did, that had not been
the motive.

Edward noticed my discomfort and put his arm around me. The woman who
was looking at us said, "Edward Cullen. How surprising to see you." She
spoke English, although it was accented -- my guess was that she didn't
practice the language often. "And I take it that you have found a mate."

"This is Bella," said Edward, nodding. "Bella, this is Zafrina, and that
is Senna and that's Kachiri." He pointed out the two who'd ignored our
approach.

I attempted to smile, and succeeded, although I kept looking at the
corpses. Kachiri finished hers and looked over her shoulder at us, and
then Senna followed suit.

The men were already dead and couldn't get deader, and I did need to
know if I could handle blood... I took a small breath.

It was about ten or twenty times worse than when the blood was neatly
contained in a human; my throat instantly combusted, praying for drink.
Venom gushed into my mouth. I summoned the instinct to fear the three
women, identifying the dead as *their* prey which I couldn't safely
take, and held very, very still, caught between the terror I was using
and the thirst I'd invited. Edward's arm, still around my shoulders,
squeezed. I didn't know if I would have been able to leave the blood
unconsumed if it hadn't belonged to the Amazons. Rational thought wasn't
efficacious against the thirst; the best I could do was pit one drive
against another, fearing for my life at the hands of the coven if I
drank the blood that the pain in my throat told me I *needed*.

I swallowed the venom, and it was instantly replaced; it didn't matter
that I'd stopped breathing. I closed my eyes and turned towards Edward,
who wrapped his arms around me comfortingly. "I'm sorry," he said to the
Amazons. "She's very controlled for a newborn, but hasn't been near
human blood before. Please excuse her."

I had been *near* human blood before, but this was faster to explain,
and anyway, I'd known not to inhale near Harry while the blood was
fresh... and those men were dead, and our *friends* the Amazon coven had
killed them... and even if the loggers had been driving some tree
extinct, they didn't deserve to die... *and they smelled so good* and I
wanted to fight Kachiri for her dead man and suck out whatever drops
were left in his veins and cool the burning in my throat but I thought
she might kill me if I tried and *I* didn't deserve to die either --

Edward said, "It looks like you've finished eating. If you could dispose
of the leftovers, it would be easier for us to talk to you; we have some
questions."

"Very well," said Zafrina, agreeably enough, and I heard the three women
picking up their respective beverage containers and racing off into the
forest with them. I didn't know what they were going to do to cover up
their involvement in the deaths; I didn't think I'd like it if I got the
answer. That didn't keep my brain from wildly speculating. Drop the
bodies into piranha-infested waters? That would probably work well.
Fling them into some slash-and-burn farm that was in the middle of the
"burn" phase? Risky... I was so parched. I wished I'd brought a bottle
of water. I wanted blood. The jaguar had been too long ago. My throat
smoldered.

They came back after about thirty seconds. "We can go somewhere else, if
that would be more comfortable for your Bella," offered either Senna or
Kachiri; I hadn't heard either speak and wasn't looking, still burying
my face in Edward's shirt. I felt him nod, and he picked me up,
accurately judging me too affected by the blood and the murder to want
to move around under my own power. I might just take off and find
someone full of blood that smelled *that good* and make the burning
stop.

Edward followed the coven through the forest with me in his arms. I
opened my eyes and watched plants whiz by, then closed them again.
Eventually we'd arrived at the Amazons' venue of choice. It was a
section of rainforest, much like any other.

"Bella, there's none of the scent here," Edward murmured to me. "You can
breathe."

I breathed again, and set my feet on the ground, where they held me up
quite satisfactorily in spite of my ongoing distress. No one seemed to
expect me to talk, which was good. "What did you visit us about, then?"
asked Zafrina.

Edward related the story of what he'd learned after our honeymoon had
been cut short from the Ticuna Indian woman who'd heard of half
vampires. "Bella had some eggs taken from her before she turned," he
told them. Then he had to explain what eggs were to the scientifically
uninitiated coven. "The upshot is that if half-vampires are possible, a
human woman could bear a child that is both mine and Bella's," he
concluded.

"I've never heard of this truly happening," said Zafrina skeptically.
"Of course there are stories, but there are stories about anything and
everything; only a handful are true."

"It may be a fruitless search," acknowledged Edward. "We're prepared to
devote some time to investigating anyway. We know the Ticuna have
legends about half-vampires; who else might know something?"

Zafrina listed a half-dozen tribes; Kachiri chimed in with a few more,
and I concluded that it was her voice that had offered the change of
location. Senna was quite silent. Zafrina remarked, after about ten
peoples with half-vampire stories had been suggested, "It surprises me
that you, golden-eyed still, would let a human die to get your child."

"No," I said at once. "Not if it will kill her. We want to find out if
there's a way she could live through it."

"Ah, she speaks," said Kachiri. "But the stories never say the mother
lives."

"But the stories are old," I said. "Medicine has gotten much better.
Forty years ago, my eggs couldn't have been harvested as they were.
Perhaps the last half-vampire born is two or three hundred years old,
and his or her mother could have been saved with something that was
invented since then. We only need to find out what killed her to make a
good guess about that."

"If she existed at all," said Zafrina.

"As I said," said Edward, "it may turn out that we're looking for
something that isn't there. But we want to try. Are there vampires that
live closer to the tribes you mentioned, who might talk to us and might
know something more concrete?"

Kachiri gave the usual stomping grounds of two vampires, both of whom
traveled alone and would be therefore unlikely to attack the pair of us,
although she didn't vouch for their helpfulness, and remarked that she
and her coven had only met each briefly. They'd run into each other,
come to an agreement on their respective territories, and then never
noticeably encroached again.

They had nothing else useful to tell us, so Edward courteously caught
them up on the latest Cullen family news and then excused us.

I fought the mental image of those dead men into the farthest recesses
of my mind, and followed him as he took off at a run through the
rainforest.

* * * * *

One would expect, even given no detailed information, that it would be
very difficult and time-consuming to find nomadic vampires one has never
met who are not trying to be easy to find in a continent as large as
South America. One would be absolutely correct. We tromped around the
suggested locations for almost three weeks. During this time, Edward
filled in the large gaps in my Spanish, so I could get along in the
non-Brazil countries. We went sniffing in uninhabited areas for vampire
scents and passed through population centers for Edward to catch
thoughts of suspicious disappearances.

Finally, we ran into a vampire who could have been one of those Kachiri
described, in the middle of the Chilean Andes.

She was a small, nervous-looking woman with a long black braid and the
same off-white tinge to her skin that seemed common to vampires made of
non-white humans. We caught just a glimpse of her from a distance before
she disappeared over a mountain, apparently spooked.

"Did you get her name?" I asked Edward as we followed the path she'd
taken over the rocks.

"No," he said. "If I keep her in range it's sure to come up..." He
ranged a little ahead of me, pitting his speed against the other
vampire's familiarity with the territory and head start. "Huilen!" he
shouted, after a few seconds. That was presumably her name; he continued
in Spanish. "Huilen, we don't want to hurt you! We just want to talk!"

She paused, clinging to a mountain peak, ready to escape if we made any
threatening moves. I caught up to Edward.

"Please talk to us," I called in the same language. Since she'd stopped,
I thought she probably knew Spanish.

"How do you know my name?" she demanded in a high, clear voice that
carried easily through the mountain air.

"Come talk to us and we'll explain," I replied.

"I can hear you from here," she said.

"You'll run away again as soon as you aren't curious anymore," I
retorted. "Please come here. We won't hurt you."

Huilen crept down the mountain cautiously; Edward and I held still. "Who
are you?" she asked.

"My name is Edward," he said, "and this is my wife Bella."

"And how do you know my name?" she asked again. Edward explained his
ability, which made Huilen even more nervous, although she didn't run
away again. "What do you *want*?" she said when he'd finished accounting
for his knowledge.

"We're trying to find out if half-vampires exist," I said.

Huilen stared at us, and then Edward said abruptly, "Who was that?"

She hissed, and turned to run, but Edward chased her; I followed, but
Huilen was scrambling over the mountains with practiced efficiency and
Edward was charging after her very fast, so it was all I could do to
keep them in hearing distance. "Huilen, wait!" pleaded Edward. "We don't
want to do you *or* him any harm! Please!"

She didn't answer him, just continued to clamber over the terrain at
high speed. I wondered what Edward would do with her if he caught her. I
saw them going diagonally over a slope off to my left, and I pushed off
from the ground with all four limbs, leaving gouges in the rock and
hurtling towards them. I landed in front of Huilen and she veered right,
but the course correction was enough to let Edward get around and cut
her off. She stopped again and shrank into herself, making a small
noise.

"Huilen, we don't want to hurt you, or... Nahuel? Nahuel. But it's
important to us to find out about half-vampires," said Edward. "Why are
you so afraid?"

"Your eyes," she murmured. "They're -- what are you?"

Patiently -- whether because he was truly patient or because Huilen's
thoughts were providing satisfactory information -- Edward explained that
we *were* vampires, but did not eat humans. Huilen seemed only a little
surprised by our animal diet, although it struck her as odd that this
would affect eye color.

"Why do you want to know about the demon's children?" asked Huilen
harshly. The way she said it, it was as though she had some specific
demon in mind, and specific children.

"When I was human," I said, approaching, "eggs were taken from me. We
have a human friend who has agreed to bear my child, but we want to know
if the child could be Edward's too."

"Your *friend* will die," spat Huilen.

"We would like to meet your nephew, Huilen," murmured Edward gently.
"And hear the whole of your story."

* * * * *

Huilen's nephew Nahuel was definitely not a vampire. His skin was a
richly saturated brown, dark and warm, and his eyes the same. He wore
his hair like his aunt's, braided, but it was a bit shorter. He had
vampirically perfect symmetry, and was quite beautiful, but he didn't
move *quite* so gracefully, and while I didn't see him run or lift
weights, my estimation was that he would not be *quite* so fast or
strong either. But it was close.

The real giveaway was the heartbeat. Nahuel's heart thrummed at a speed
I'd never heard a human's manage, although it was slower than mine or
Harry's had been at the final moments of our turnings. He was also warm,
about the same temperature as a werewolf, and smelled somewhere between
human and vampire -- not like food, but pleasant.

He lived in a tiny house high on a mountain, which would be difficult
for humans to access but not impossible. It was not too far from there
to the city of Santiago de Chile, whence the vampire who went by
"Santiago" apparently hailed.

Huilen didn't live with Nahuel anymore, although she had raised him and
visited frequently. "My sister is dead, of course," she explained,
sounding angry. "She was so pretty. Our parents named her Pire, for the
snow on the mountains. But she was *too* pretty, and the *Libishomen*
wanted her for himself." I assumed the unfamiliar word was a legendary
term for vampire. "She told me in confidence that an angel had taken her
for his lover and I knew it was no angel -- she was covered in bruises, I
suppose he didn't take any care with her. I warned her, as if the
injuries weren't warnings themselves, but she didn't listen -- like she'd
been bewitched. And she told me she was carrying his child."

"This was how long ago?" asked Edward, studying Nahuel's youthful,
lovely features. The half-vampire blinked back at him mildly.

"A hundred and fifty years, give or take," supplied Nahuel. His voice
was clear and gentle. "I grew very fast, but stopped when I was seven.
Haven't noticed any change since."

"Amazing," Edward murmured. "Do go on," he added to Huilen.

"I knew everyone, even our parents, would want the child dead and Pire
with him, if she were found to be carrying the demon's spawn, and I
couldn't lose her," explained Huilen. "I went with her into the jungle,
I hunted animals for her and she drank their blood ravenously, and she
was still weak and her child hurt her from the inside, breaking bones. I
thought perhaps if I nursed her well enough she could live, and then the
demon's child could be destroyed without harming her." Nahuel didn't
have any visible reaction to this description of his fetal self.

"But Pire died anyway?" I murmured.

Huilen nodded. "She did. She lost so much blood, and was so weakened to
make him grow so quickly, and he had broken so many of her bones. But
she loved her child. She named him Nahuel -- after the jungle cat -- and
her dying wish was that I care for her son. And I told her I would. But
after he ripped his way out, through the hard shell that had grown
around him in her womb, and I lifted her from her body, he bit me. I
crawled into the jungle, and thought I would die. When I was finished
turning, he was sleeping, curled up beside me."

"So you're venomous," Edward said, looking back to Nahuel. "And you
sleep."

"I do, and I am," confirmed Nahuel. "My sisters have no venom, but I do
not know if that is due to gender or to chance."

"You have *sisters*," exclaimed Edward.

"Three," said Nahuel, "as of seventeen years ago. The other two are
older than me. But their mothers died as well. My father considers
himself a scientist, and thinks he's breeding a master race; I'm told
that more of his experiments have died in... attempting to conceive...
or during their pregnancies, than have managed to bring to term. My
sisters travel with him, but I already had Huilen for family, and was
not interested in going with him when he came looking for me several
years after my mother's death."

Edward nodded, crestfallen at the implied death toll. It yielded a
pessimistic prognosis for an attempt at our own half-vampire child. I
took his hand and folded it in mine. Seventeen years previously,
medicine had been fairly modern. If Nahuel's father had had any interest
at all in keeping the newest sister's mother alive, and it was the sort
of thing that was reliably doable with 2005 technology, it could most
likely have been managed then. And Joham was a vampire, and could have
turned the mothers if that would have saved them and he'd wanted them
alive. Maybe he didn't care, but he wasn't there to ask.

I asked, but Nahuel couldn't speculate as to how much care the recent
crop of "attempts" had gotten; Pire had been abandoned altogether once
pregnant, but that might or might not have been a special situation, as
she was with Huilen instead of isolated. Nahuel rarely had any contact
with his father, whose name was Joham but whose location and contact
information were unknown.

The three sisters were from various parts of the world -- one Aboriginal
Australian, one Swiss, one Korean. Nahuel had heard of failures from
Mexico, Iceland, Ghana, Nigeria, China, Tibet, India, the Philippines,
Indonesia and Russia, and didn't think that Joham and the sisters had
bothered to mention *all* such deaths. So Joham clearly had no
geographical pattern that we could use to predict his movements. There
was no realistic hope of finding him and getting more information before
Aro came to check up on Gianna.

We quizzed Nahuel a little more on his biology, just out of some
masochistic interest in knowing what could have been. He obliged us
readily enough. He was not as strong, fast, tough, sensorily gifted,
precise in movement, roomy-minded, or possessed of perfect recall as a
vampire. In physical power, he was behind an average vampire by the same
amount that a vampire was behind a newborn; it was similar for the other
physical abilities. His mind had space in proportion to his senses and
capacities, as ours did. He could remember anything he *chose* to
remember and might or might not forget things otherwise.

I winced when he remarked casually that he could survive on either human
food or blood -- human or animal -- but found his aunt's diet the most
pleasant. Huilen's eyes (of course) were murderous burgundy.

Nahuel sounded like he was acting on a much milder preference than her,
though, somewhere between a human's "I really enjoy bacon, and I don't
like tofu at all" and a vampire's "only human blood will quench my
desperate, maddening thirst". I was mildly repulsed, which he appeared
to notice.

I debated with myself whether I ought to try to convert the pair of
them, or at least Nahuel. It felt very *awkward* -- they hadn't expressed
the interest that Maggie had. Part of me thought that it would be
ungrateful and rude of me to have badgered Huilen into taking us to her
nephew's home and dragged a painful story out of them, only to then
disapprove of their dietary habits. Part of me thought something along
the lines of, *people are*dying*, if there's any chance you can stop it
then you must tolerate arbitary amounts of awkwardness because there is
no embarrassment you can feel that it's worth someone's life to avoid*.

While Edward accumulated information about Nahuel's eldest sister's
witchcraft (she could divert notice away from herself, apparently --
becoming not invisible, but uninteresting), I let these parts of myself
fight it out. If what I really wanted to do was minimize death, I ought
to kill Huilen then and there. Even if I convinced her to become a
vegetarian, she was not overwhelmingly likely to go on forever without
ever messing up.

And she could be killed, if I attacked. If it came down to it, however
insane he thought I was being in my assault, Edward would be on my side.
Just as Irina would have been on Laurent's against her own sisters if
they'd kicked up a fuss about his killings. Edward's mindreading and my
newborn strength made the fight almost risk-free on our end, even if
Nahuel was factored in. Neither the hybrid nor Huilen was any sort of
witch, and she was small and he was weak and slow compared to us.

But I didn't want to kill her. That seemed like an incorrect thing to
do.

I thought about it, and decided that this wasn't *just* a matter of
wanting to keep my hands clean of death. I had no queasiness about the
mental image of personally destroying, say, Aro, in the likely event
that this proved necessary. I could probably even bring myself to
execute his mate, since she'd been in one of the best possible positions
to affect the direction of the Volturi out of anyone save the three
rulers themselves, and had done nothing. (And because if I had to kill
Aro, it would amount to a mercy killing to send his wife after him.)

But Huilen was, incredibly, frustratingly, not an *evil woman*, even if
she'd killed a hundred people or more in every one of the hundred and
fifty years she'd been a vampire. *Evil* women did not adhere to the
dying wishes of their sisters, from across the memory-thinning wall of
turning, to bring up their nephews. An *evil* Huilen would have
strangled the sleeping oxygen-dependent baby who'd curled up beside her
while she turned. Or she wouldn't have taken Pire into the jungle and
helped her in the first place -- she'd have let their village kill her
sister and gestating nephew, washing her hands of the mess.

If she really wasn't evil, though, she shouldn't be *murdering people*.
Huilen's death would be dreadful, but her victims weren't evil *either*.

Damn the awkwardness, full speed ahead.

There was a lull in the conversation after Edward established that
Nahuel had spent one month in the womb from conception to messy, deadly
birth. Huilen was grimacing again, displaying clear misery over her
sister's loss.

"It's strange to me," I said quietly, "that you feel so strongly about
Pire's death, but you both kill humans for food."

"*She* was my *sister*," growled Huilen.

I held up my hands, palms forward, in a calming gesture. "I understand.
I would feel more strongly about it if one of my family were killed than
if it were only a stranger, too. But of course strangers tend to have
families too." It was difficult to restrain my flippancy. I would really
need to look into that and find a way to force myself to be serious, if
I were going to make any kind of habit out of vegetarain evangelism.
"Huilen, I understand it's not common knowledge that full vampires can
live on animal blood -- but Nahuel, if you *know* that *you* can eat
animal blood or even humans' food..."

"I can; that doesn't mean I like it," he said.

"Maybe you could rob blood banks or something," I said. My family didn't
do this (or even legally buy blood, which doctors such as Carlisle could
do) because drinking *any* human blood would make it harder to resist
killing for more. It would be the equivalent of an alcoholic keeping
beer in the fridge to make it less likely that he'd rob a liquor store
if he got a craving.

But it might work differently for a half-vampire (he'd tried animal
blood and human food long enough to know that they sustained him, for
one thing, which I didn't think vampires had a history of doing on their
own save Carlisle). And Huilen was *already* killing people. If they
started drinking blood without murdering to get it, they might develop
opinions of themselves that were more consistent with vegetarian diets,
and move in that direction on their own. Maybe.

Or at least they wouldn't be *first* up against the wall when the
revolution came. They'd have a little warning.

Nahuel looked vaguely interested by the suggestion, as though he might
try it the way he'd tried other nutritional regimens; Huilen, less so. I
let the conversation drift away, frowning to myself.

* * * * *

We visited with the hybrid coven for a few more hours, picking up
minutiae we couldn't use about Nahuel and sharing trivia about
ourselves. Edward seemed inclined to count them among our non-vegetarian
friends as we departed. This was reasonable enough, considering that
"non-vegetarian" wasn't a disqualifying feature. It seemed to make him
feel better about having learned that Gianna couldn't hope to live
through a half-vampire pregnancy.

I let Edward continue to teach me to be a polyglot as we went to the
nearest airport, but my mind wasn't on linguistics. I was thinking about
death.

It had to go.

* * * * *

"It's a reasonable assumption that Joham wasn't trying to keep the women
alive," Edward said tentatively, during the flight to Norway. "If he's
trying to breed a master race, he could consider it a sign of bad genes
or something, if one doesn't survive..."

"Possibly," I said. "Maybe even probably. If it mattered to him *that*
much that they were dying, he would have called off the 'experiment'
hundreds of years ago. But we don't know how to find him and check. We
can *stall* for a few months, and see if he visits Nahuel in the
available window of leeway and is willing to talk to us. But we can't
tell Gianna we want her to carry a kind of baby that no one has ever
lived through carrying unless we have some *good* information that says
*she* will be okay."

"You're right," sighed Edward.

"I think it's safe to delay until January, maybe even February," I said,
patting his arm. "Just in case. Maybe you could look for him without me
along, so Alice could be of more help?" Texts and e-mails from Rachel
were frequent enough, and apparently affected my decisions enough, that
there were still irregular blank spots in my future that Alice couldn't
see. She'd been unable to provide advance directions regarding our hunt
through South America, or it wouldn't have taken us half of August and
the first week of September to conduct the search.

"Maybe," he said, although he didn't sound very hopeful.

I was tempted to say something about how being a vampire was better
anyway, and a human child could turn into a vampire adult one day where
a hybrid most likely couldn't and vampires had various advantages over
half-vampires. That was just sour grapes. Edward had wanted -- and I had
wanted -- *our* baby. Of course we'd love the stranger's child. But it
wasn't the *better* outcome. Half-vampires weren't *deficient* in some
vitally important way. So what if I could beat Nahuel up if I needed to
-- he was still unaging, still stronger and faster and smarter than a
human, and there were hints that he didn't have the vampire struggle
with blood, which was an advantage. Besides, half-vampires could be
witches like the eldest sister, and good witchcraft could balance any
losses in other areas.

So instead of inventing that reassurance I leaned against Edward,
exchanging comfort that didn't rely on rationalizations.

Maggie
======

When we arrived back in Norway, Gianna's egg-harvesting surgery had been
and gone; hers were in the freezer next to mine. I went up to one of the
computers in the bank of shared ones, rather than running to my cottage
to boot up my laptop. I had another heap of e-mails from my parents and
Rachel, and one reply from Angela saying she'd relayed my news to
everyone and they all wished me well.

Rachel had sent an e-mail that was very depressing. Emily and Leah had
gotten into a fight. This was all it had taken to push Emily teetering
over the edge of the fence she'd been sitting regarding Sam. She ran
straight to his arms, leaving Claire in an eager Quil's care for a
couple of days. (Claire had spent one week home with her parents before
being farmed out to her Aunt Emily again; this hiatus had made Quil very
miserable but didn't appear to do him physical harm, and he perked up
again when she returned.)

Leah was enraged. She picked fights with anyone and everyone -- her
brother, often, but everyone in the pack had gotten into at least one
tussle with her except Rachel (who could order her to stand down) and
Sam. Fast healing prevented this from being too much of a danger, but
didn't make the doubly betrayed Leah more pleasant to be around. When
Sam went wolf, she de-wolfed. At all costs she avoided sharing his
thoughts. She stayed otherwise isolated from everyone except her mother,
who was undergoing a loosely comparable distress.

Rachel had nominated Leah to test the pack's range, and Leah had run all
the way to Canada (but not near Denali, thankfully). There was no
noticeable delay, static, or loss of fidelity to the telepathy. Moving
away wouldn't free her from the torment. Even if she scrupulously
avoided direct mental contact with Sam, she couldn't help but get it
secondhand from the others in the pack.

I thanked Rachel, asked her to keep me posted, and reminded her to let
me know if she or the pack needed anything. I couldn't think of anything
helpful to do about the Leah/Sam/Emily mess except to feel vaguely
guilty. At least with the evidence stacking up that only male wolves
could imprint, Becky's marriage was safe -- unless the other accumulated
stresses of activation and the move and her husband's departure from his
career fractured it themselves.

I wrote my obligatory replies to my parents, but had no new European
countries to tell them about; I told them we were in Norway and in the
process of deciding where to go next. I confirmed for Charlie that I
didn't plan to go back to Forks -- or for that matter the United States --
and attend high school in the new school year.

Inbox unburied, I scanned my mental list of projects. I figured it was a
fine time to start building an immunity to Jasper, to see if I could
expand my power that way. I closed my eyes and tried to shift my
thinking.

I'd been *told* that he operated on a physical level. Breathing, pulse
rate, maybe hormones. But he could work equally well on vampires and
humans. (He tended to get better *results* from humans, but that was
because their emotions were weaker and more malleable, not because he
worked extra-forcefully on them.) Vampires had no pulses. Vampires could
quit breathing at any time. I hadn't found either of these things to be
major components in my experience of emotions. If we had hormones at
all, it wasn't clear how they'd work -- with no bloodstream to carry
them, what would make them work?

From what I'd been told, Jasper didn't work *overtly* on any of these
physical signals, either -- he didn't say to himself "now I will calm
this target's heart rate" or "more dopamine is called for here". He
sensed and manipulated emotions *directly*. While he thought of it as
*functioning* on a physical level, that wasn't how he interacted with
his own power.

So it was rather strange that I wouldn't be immune to him to start with.
It was probably a very borderline thing, and the very unconsciousness of
what I did was likely working against me. Perhaps if I just
concentrated...

*My emotions are part of my mind,* I thought. *As much as my conscious
thoughts, which Edward cannot hear and Aro cannot read. As much as my
sensory experience, which Jane and Alec cannot alter. As much as my
status as a person, which Harry cannot detect. Considerably*more*than
my*electrical systems*, which Kate cannot overload.*

I repeated this to myself several times, and then the door burst open. I
opened my eyes, and a horrified Jasper was standing at the threshold.

* * * * *

He was looking at me rather like Harry had -- like something about me was
*wrong*.

"Did it work?" I asked mildly.

"Bella, what in the hell did you do?" demanded Jasper. Edward appeared
behind him and shoved past to stand between us, and this was a little
alarming, because it seemed to indicate that there might be some danger
to me *from Jasper*, which Edward had heard.

"Well," I said, flicking my gaze between Jasper and Edward, "it didn't
make *sense* that you could detect my emotions, so I just... thought
about that for a while."

Jasper was looking at me like I was some kind of grotesque
vampire-shaped robot occupying the uncanny valley of personhood. "I
can't feel *anything* from you anymore," he almost gagged. "It's like
you're a hole in the air."

"I'm sorry if it makes me hard to be around..." I was looking at
Jasper's scars. He looked very, very scary when he was mad. To have that
many scars, a lot of vampires had tried and failed to kill him -- the
same number that must have died, or nearly, in the attempt.

"Turn it off," Jasper demanded.

"I'm not sure if I can," I said honestly.

"Jasper, *calm down*," said Edward in a soft, dangerous voice.

"It was bad enough when it was only you, Edward!" exclaimed Jasper.
"Don't think I've forgotten how much that infuriated you -- and then
Alice started losing her -- and now I can't get one *hint* of emotion off
her -- we rely on our powers to keep ourselves *safe*!"

I was tempted to make some snide remark about how my power was doing a
great job of keeping *me* safe, but I didn't actually feel that way;
sure, Jasper couldn't magically detect my feelings anymore, but he
hadn't been a danger to me before, and now he well might be. I kept my
mouth shut and let Edward handle it.

"This is *Bella*," Edward reminded Jasper in a level, cool voice, still
interposing himself between us. "She is my *wife*, she is *your* sister,
you don't need to keep *tabs* on her or be able to manipulate her
emotions to defend us. She is *one of* us."

"She's still a newborn," said Jasper, but he was grasping at straws.

"She's no ordinary newborn, you *know* that," said Edward forcefully.
"Calm. Down. Now."

Jasper snarled. Where was Alice? Why wasn't she there, reining in her
husband? He listened to her -- was Rachel about to e-mail again, was I
blacking out the entire room? I darted my hand out and quit the program;
neither Jasper nor Edward was facing in a direction that would have let
them see my mail, but it would have appeared in my peripheral vision.
Neither reacted noticeably to the action.

Sure enough, a tense four seconds later, Alice popped up behind Jasper.
"Jazz," she said reproachfully, touching his arm.

He relaxed marginally, but didn't look at her. "Turn it off," he said
again, hissing under the words.

"I don't know if I can," I repeated.

"Try," insisted Jasper.

I braced myself, and shook my head.

Even Alice looked a little surprised at that, although Edward seemed to
have expected it. "Why?" asked Jasper tightly. "Bella, I can't even --
it's like you're a *robot* or something, I'm not getting flat affect or
something neutral like that, there's just *nothing*. You disappeared."

"I understand," I said, quiet. "But I'm trying to *expand* my shield,
not diminish it. Besides," I added cautiously, "would you believe me if
I tried, and then told you I couldn't?"

Jasper growled at me, and Edward's hands clenched. Alice danced from toe
to toe, looking nervous. "Jazz, honey," she said, tugging on Jasper's
arm. "This isn't worth a fight."

He took one long step backwards, then turned away and let Alice lead him
down the stairs and out of the house. Edward didn't relax until a second
after I couldn't hear them anymore. Then most of the tension drained out
of him and he turned towards me, dropping down on one knee so he could
hug me where I was sitting at the computer.

"I didn't realize he'd react like that," I murmured, winding my arms
around Edward.

"I didn't either," Edward said. "Or I would have warned you when you
first mentioned it. But I should have guessed. He's very sensitive to
the climate of emotion around him, and he's never found anyone he
couldn't get a signal from... some people are more or less resistant to
the active half of his power, and he might have tolerated it better if
it were just that, but there's no variation save for you with the
passive half."

"It's like Harry," I said, "but worse -- I don't *live* with Harry."

Edward stood up and kissed the top of my head. "You don't technically
live with Jasper, either. We have our own house."

I nodded and got to my feet. "Do you think he'll get used to it?" I
asked, going with Edward out of the computer room and downstairs to head
to our cottage.

"I think so," he soothed. "Alice will help. She was frightened when you
first blanked out of her visions, but she took it much better than
Jasper is after she confirmed that you were safe."

"But she can still see me sometimes," I said.

"That's true," said Edward, a little troubled. "I don't understand why
that should be... everyone else you block, you block consistently."

"Hm," I said. If I pretended to speculate, I might give something away
about the real reason behind Alice's spotty vision. I could have tried
to add her to my immunities, but she was far too useful -- if she could
never see me at all, I lost a huge well of information. And I really
*didn't* know if I could turn my shield, or part of it, off.

Edward speculated for me. "I suppose only some visions you feature in
heavily involve your thinking and its consequences," he said. "I haven't
noticed a pattern like that in what Alice does and doesn't see, but
then, I can't tell what you're thinking."

I shrugged. Then my phone rang.

* * * * *

"Hi, Bella!" said a cheery, Irish-accented voice when I answered the
phone.

"Maggie?" I asked, bewildered.

"That's me! I've been trying to call you for a week now!"

"I was in a place with lousy reception," I said. The jungle was nothing
if not that. I'd been able to keep my phone charged via occasional stops
in cities with publicly available electrical outlets, but that didn't
mean anyone had been able to actually reach me without leaving a
message.

"I would have called Carlisle or somebody instead but I figured if you
weren't answering there was probably some stuff up with your coven," she
said.

"It was just me and Edward who were away; everyone else was home," I
said. "But we're all here now. What is it you wanted to talk about?"

"Well," Maggie said, "I want to visit."

I blinked, and Edward, who could hear both sides of the conversation
easily enough, did too.

"You want to visit?" I said. I didn't think I'd misheard, but it was a
hard convention to break: when astonished, confirm astonishing fact.

"Yeah!" said Maggie brightly. "Just me, not Siobhan and Liam."

"Uh, Maggie, we really can't have people going missing near where we
live," I said.

"No, that's fine," she said. "I ate a badger last week, and I think I've
got the hang of it."

"It's not quite that simple," I said. "One badger, when you've been
eating humans for more than a century, doesn't mean you're a vegetarian
overnight." Truthfully, I thought she was practiced enough to cover her
hunting even if she went back to eating humans. But Gianna was still
living with the family.

"Well, I won't hunt any humans in *your territory*, anyway," said
Maggie. "That's just obvious. I can go to Sweden or something when I'm
hungry if I decide animals aren't for me. Which I guess they might not
be, I mean, badger blood, ick, but it wasn't *that* bad and it
definitely wasn't my mate, right?"

"Right," I said dubiously. "Um, well, I can't really *stop* you from
visiting, but... uh... Maggie, I have a... a pet human." I didn't know
how else to summarize the situation believably to someone who thought of
humans the way Maggie appeared to. "You can't eat her. I don't know if I
can trust you around her."

"You have a *pet human?*" asked Maggie, squealing over this quaintness
the way I'd expect Renée to exclaim about someone having a sugar glider
or a domesticated fox.

"She's not really a *pet*, but she lives here and Aro basically gave her
to me and I'm not allowed to let her go, and... it's a really long
story," I said. "But she is *absolutely not for eating*, and I don't
know whether I can expect you to *absolutely not eat her*."

"I will *absolutely not eat her,*" swore Maggie. "Up till the badger I
was doing really well at the only eating men thing, too! It's like,
women don't even look like food anymore, you know what I mean?" She
sounded so pleased with herself. "It's two whole layers of not eating
your human. So I'm not going to hurt your pet, Bella, it's okay!"

"All right," I said, shrugging. I'd give Ilario a heads up, but he
practically supervised Gianna all the time anyway; he wouldn't be
significantly inconvenienced by serving as her bodyguard. "I'll let the
others know that you're planning to visit, then."

"See you soon, Bella!" said Maggie.

I hung up the phone. "That," I said, "is going to be interesting."

* * * * *

Ilario was on high alert the moment I told him Maggie was coming. He
bristled when I said that I'd described Gianna as my "pet human",
although Gianna herself didn't seem that bothered -- it was a step up
from the Volturi, at any rate. But Ilario said he'd keep a close eye on
Gianna and make sure Maggie didn't try to eat her.

"If," I said, "something does happen -- I don't think it will, Ilario,
but *if* -- you have *got* to hold your breath. I got a whiff of human
blood in the Amazon and it was... I wasn't ready for it. You're not
ready for it now. Fight Maggie off of Gianna if you have to until
someone comes to help, but *don't breathe*." He accepted this
instruction solemnly.

Edward found Jasper and Alice for me and told them, giving the empath
some more time away from my unsettlingly non-emotional presence. I
informed Carlisle, Esme, Rosalie, and Emmett. Carlisle seemed impressed
that I'd gotten a non-vegetarian to go so far as to try eating an
animal, although I wasn't sure how much of it was my own doing and how
much of it was Maggie's native curiosity. Emmett was disappointed that
Maggie was coming alone, as she wasn't as interesting a partner for
sparring as Siobhan.

Maggie arrived on a Tuesday, having swum most of the way and climbed up
the nearest fjord. Her curls were still wet when she found our house.
Rosalie was up on the roof and the first to see her coming, but everyone
knew by the time she entered the yard, and I was waiting to greet her;
Ilario was with Gianna, indoors.

"Hi, Bella!" said Maggie with a great big smile. Her eyes were a bright
gold, as expected if she hadn't eaten any humans since her badger. She'd
probably eaten an animal more recently, though, as the gold was quite
light and not darkened with hunger -- so it was possible it had gone
badger, human, some other animal. There was no way for me to be sure.

"Hi, Maggie," I replied. "Uh, welcome to our home."

"This is a big house," she remarked. "I guess there are a whole lot of
you. Does your pet live here or do you put her someplace else?" She
peered around with more physical movement than was really necessary,
turning her head to look at things that she could have seen peripherally
and standing on her toes for negligible improvements in vantage point.
It made her look exciteable, maybe a few years younger than she
physically was. (When she held still and I corrected for vampirism, I
guessed she'd been twenty-five when turned.)

"She lives in this house," I said. "Edward and I actually have our own
cottage, that way." I waved in the relevant direction. "Everybody else
is based here, including Gianna. That's her name."

"Gi-an-na," said Maggie, tasting the word. "Pretty. I want to hear your
long story about how you got a pet human! It's so weird, I've never
heard of anybody keeping one before."

I was beginning to regret that description very much. "She's really not
a *pet*," I said. "It's just that I'll be in trouble with the Volturi if
she goes off by herself, so she lives here for now."

"I want the story anyway," said Maggie implacably.

I told it to her, although I skimped on the exact reasoning behind why
I'd chosen to designate Gianna as a surrogate mother; better to let that
sound to outside parties like a deeply held desire instead of a way to
save Gianna's life. I'd cozied up to the idea of having a baby over
time, but when I'd first said it, it hadn't been my favorite plan ever --
but Maggie didn't have to know that. Even if I wasn't immune to her
power, she couldn't detect lies by omission.

The Irish vampire was absolutely tickled by the entire thing. "So cute!"
she cried when I'd signaled the conclusion of the explanation.

I decided it was wise to check whether Maggie could tell when I was
lying, with something that no one, even my family, would be able to call
me on. "She mostly looked scared, not cute, when I told her I was
bringing her home," I said. "But once I got her calmed down it took her
just twenty minutes to get packed." It had been eighteen, but Gianna
hadn't timed it and wouldn't remember that precisely if she had.

Maggie didn't so much as twitch. "That's a long time," she pointed out.

"For a human it's not. I think she left some things behind, she was in
such a hurry to get out."

"The Volturi must sure have scared her," cooed Maggie. Like she was
talking about a kitten, who could be soothed with petting. Although I
supposed a kitten wouldn't find a vampire's petting to be soothing at
all; animals hated being around vampires.

"Yep," I said. "That'll happen when people you can't effectively oppose
plot your death."

"I want to meet her," said Maggie decisively.

"I'm not sure that's a good idea..." I began. I hadn't explained about
Ilario's fraternal status; as far as Maggie knew our coven consisted of
four mated pairs, one miscellaneous newborn of unknown provenance, and
one pet Gianna.

"I told you I wasn't going to eat her!" interrupted Maggie, and I
gritted my teeth.

"Don't," I said, "interrupt me. That's a good way to seriously annoy
me."

"Oh," said Maggie, eyes open very wide. "I'm sorry. But I'm not going to
eat her, really. Why else would it be a bad idea?"

"Because Ilario -- that's the newborn -- probably wouldn't like it. He's
very protective of her," I said. "And he knows you are not a lifelong
vegetarian. He barely trusts himself around her, and he's never eaten a
human since turning back in July."

"Are they mates, or whatever it is when one's a human?" asked Maggie.
"Like you and Edward before you turned?"

"No, he's her brother," I said. "He was dying, and she wanted him saved,
so we brought him up here and turned him."

"Awwww," said Maggie, obviously finding this outrageously adorable. "But
she's yours. Aro gave her to you, not him. So I can meet her if you say
so, right?"

I dragged a hand through my hair tiredly. "She's not *really* my *pet*,"
I said. "I don't boss her around or anything."

"Then her brother shouldn't either," said Maggie reasonably. "Why don't
you ask *her* if she'll meet me?"

This... I had no ready objection to.

I heard Alice inside, asking Gianna if she wanted to be introduced to
Maggie; of course my conversation had been audible to everyone except
Gianna herself.

I heard Gianna dithering, and Maggie -- fidgeting, swaying, head-turning
Maggie -- went completely still.

Gianna finally said, "All right, then," and Ilario grumbled and Maggie
smiled --

My pet human, closely followed by her brother, walked out the back
door --

And Maggie just stared.

* * * * *

Gianna rapidly became self-conscious under Maggie's fixed attention, and
blushed, taking a little half step to get behind Ilario. Ilario stared
Maggie down, growling in the back of his throat.

Maggie's gaze flicked to Ilario and became a perturbed glare. She leaned
to try to see Gianna around him, but he got in her way, and she made a
whining noise. Then Maggie whirled to face me.

"I'll fight you for her," she said.

There was a second's silence as everyone processed that. More family
exited the house to get a closer look at the proceedings. "Um," I said
eloquently. Ilario hissed.

"Or you could just give her to me if you don't want to fight," wheedled
Maggie.

"Not wanting to fight is... only part of the problem with me giving her
to you," I said. Maggie didn't appear to fill in the blanks herself, so
I explained. "I know I used the word 'pet' when I first told you about
her, but I really shouldn't have, it was just a shorthand for the long
story I *just* told you about why she lives with us. Which story, you'll
remember, includes the part where I am not *allowed* to let her leave.
Conveniently, she hasn't been inclined to try, but both I *and she*
could be in a bad place with the Volturi if they show up and find that
I'm not at least sort of supervising her. Even if she actually belonged
to me, and I was comfortable doing whatever I wanted with that, there's
Ilario." I pointed him out. "He's kind of attached to her. I don't think
he likes the idea of you taking possession of his sister much. He
probably wouldn't stop Gianna if *she* tried to leave -- I'd need to do
that myself -- but unless she says otherwise he's acting as her
protector."

Ilario hissed at Maggie again, confirming this guess.

"But I want her," said Maggie, as though nothing I'd said had sunk in at
all.

The entire population of the house was scattered around the lawn at this
point, watching things unfold. Edward turned to Alice. "Was I this
ridiculous?" he asked her.

"You were worse," said Alice placidly.

"Huh?" said Maggie, looking their way.

Alice just smiled, the picture of innocence; Edward strolled around
Ilario and Gianna to stand next to me.

Gianna peeped around Ilario's arm to look at Maggie; predictably, this
meant that Maggie could see her too, and they held eye contact for a few
seconds. Gianna was mostly confused, green eyes blinking more rapidly
than usual; a flush gradually returned to her cheeks. Maggie's hands
crept up towards her own face, where they clasped under her chin to
accompany an expression that was half enraptured longing and half...
anxiety of some kind, maybe just unfamiliarity with the situation. Or
she was confused *about* wanting me to give her Gianna, however certain
she was on the fact of the matter.

"I don't understand," said Gianna softly.

"You're so *pretty!*" exclaimed Maggie, addressing Gianna directly for
the first time. Gianna's blush got darker, and Maggie started shifting
her weight from foot to foot, perhaps restraining an urge to rush
forward and pick up the object of her interest. She looked back to me.
"I'll take good care of her," she pleaded.

Ilario was beginning to look confused himself. He turned his head
marginally to be able to see Gianna, a dubious expression on his face.
"Refresh my memory," he said slowly, in Italian, "as to how...
exactly... *this* works. I *thought* she was trying to get permission to
drink your blood, but..."

Gianna shrank away from her brother, taking two steps backward. Maggie
didn't seem to understand Italian, but when she saw Gianna leaving the
sphere of Ilario's protection, she held out her arms eagerly as though
expecting Gianna to run straight to her. She didn't; instead she backed
towards Carlisle and Esme, who were close to the house. Ilario didn't
move a muscle once she started inching away from him, just stood there
looking stunned.

Maggie dropped her arms. "What's going on now?" she asked, sounding
lost.

Ilario spun in place and stalked out of the yard, passing me and Edward
on his way out. "Look after my sister," he said through gritted teeth as
he went.

* * * * *

"I didn't tell him," Gianna said frantically. Rosalie and Emmett had
not-so-gently encouraged Maggie to join them for a walk, and Alice and
Jasper were looking for Ilario to calm him down, while the rest of us
talked to the resident human inside. "It -- it honestly didn't seem to
matter, I wasn't seeing anyone and wasn't looking, I didn't want to make
some kind of huge civil rights issue out of my relationship with my
*brother* if I didn't have to -- so -- he didn't know."

"He was surprised," acknowledged Edward. "I think he'll get over it...
but this wasn't the best way for him to find out."

"It's not even as though I had a secret girlfriend all along and he
caught us together!" cried Gianna. "I'd never seen Maggie once before
today!"

"I don't think Maggie meant to hurt you, sweetheart," soothed Esme. "She
didn't know."

"That said," I put in, "we need to figure out what to do about her. And
Gianna, that's mostly up to you."

"But I don't know," said Gianna. "I don't know hardly anything about her
-- she just showed up -- I mean, she's beautiful, of course she is, she's
a vampire, but she also talked *about* me while I was standing right
there like I was the family dog or something. And she used to eat
people, she might do it again..."

"She is new to vegetarianism, and for that matter to thinking of humans
as people," said Carlisle gently, "but if anything can keep her on
course, you can, Gianna."

"That's a hell of a responsibility to put on her," I said. "Gianna, if
Maggie kills people, *she* kills people -- not you. She ate her first
animal without knowing you existed; if she eats her eight thousandth
human *after* knowing you exist, that doesn't make you any more guilty
for that death than for the last seven thousand nine hundred and
ninety-nine. Or however many." Gianna nodded mutely; Esme patted her on
the back with an encouraging smile.

"That said," I went on, "if you want to be with her, or give it a try,
or whatever, it still has to be here or at least compatible with me and
Edward tagging along -- I've had to visit the Volturi without extensive
advance planning for it twice now. If I run into them again unexpectedly
during the next ten months, I don't want you or me or anybody dying over
you moving to Ireland when you're supposedly my 'gift' from Aro. It was
one thing to leave you behind while we went to South America, surrounded
by people the Volturi know are our coven and at our known address;
sending you off with Maggie would be something else entirely."

"I understand. I'm not planning to run away," Gianna said. "I've heard
them conducting 'trials' before... I don't want to be the defendant."

"And I, for one, am going to cast a solid *no* vote on tolerating a
non-vegetarian in the family the way the Denalis are putting up with
Laurent," I said. "This is not as sticky a situation as that: Gianna's a
human and not subject to the same impulses. She won't fly into a rage if
something happens to Maggie. Right?" I asked, looking to Gianna. "If I
go outside and find that Maggie's kidnapped some Norwegians and is
snacking on them and some are still alive and salvageable, it's okay
with you if I have to attack her to make her quit?"

Gianna nodded, although she looked a little queasy.

"So... if Gianna decides to 'give it a try' with Maggie, you propose
that we de facto add Maggie to the family until she slips up?" asked
Edward.

"Not "slips up"... anyone can do that. It's awful and we should avoid
it. But once it actually happens, then it's not necessarily a great
predictor of future behavior in vampires who've already eaten humans,
which Maggie has. If she *decides* to eat humans again, then that's it."

Edward nodded. "The good news is that Maggie is very trustworthy once
pinned down to a commitment. Her power didn't come out of nowhere -- she
has a solid respect for the truth and prides herself on honesty and
keeping her promises."

"That's a relief," I said. "But this is all *if* Gianna decides she's up
for it. You don't have to, Gianna," I told her. "You're free to accept
or reject Maggie -- now, or later, or whatever you like. I'm not entirely
sure what will happen after you turn if you don't see her once you're a
vampire, but at least for now, the ball's in your court -- on turning as
well, for that matter, although personally I still recommend it unless
you *really* don't care for Maggie. But you don't *have* to."

"Thank you, Bella," said Gianna in a low voice.

* * * * *

Edward and I went looking for Maggie. She was still with Emmett and
Rosalie, who were standing nearby looking respectively amused and bored
while our visitor sat on the edge of a fjord staring dejectedly at the
water.

When we approached, Maggie perked up at once and sprang to her feet.
"What'd she say? Can I talk to her?"

"She hasn't decided yet," I said levelly.

Maggie actually hopped up and down in frustration. "This isn't fair!
It's not supposed to be *complicated!* When Siobhan found Liam she
didn't have to work hard to convince him to leave his old coven and even
fight them off, let alone to be with her at all! Why'd she have to still
be a human? Can't you just turn her and make it simple?"

"Not now, I can't," I said. "She can't carry a baby if she's a vampire,
which I already *told you* she has to do if Aro's going to be kept from
dealing some extra death. Anyway, that's her own choice too, if she
wants to turn. She's liked the idea in the past, but if she decides she
doesn't care for *you*, then she might decide against it specifically
for that reason."

Maggie threaded her fingers between her brightly orange ringlets and
moaned. "But she's supposed to be mine! Why shouldn't she want me?
Aren't I nice?"

"That's been my impression, but Gianna's entitled to her own."

Emmett and Rosalie were moving off now that Edward and I were there to
chaperone. Maggie flopped onto her back, as though about to make an
angel impression in the rock. (I decided to see later if that was
something I could do practically or if it would be inefficient.) "I
don't know what to do!" she wailed. "I can't just *not have her*, that's
not okay at all."

"You might want to ask Alice for help," I suggested. "Edward needed
instructions on how to approach me, and that worked out. But even if she
gives you guidelines and you follow them all perfectly, I can't
*guarantee* you that Gianna will be interested."

"Well, where's Alice, then?" asked Maggie gamely.

"Back at the house, now," said Edward. "She left Jasper and Ilario to
talk by themselves."

Maggie ran towards the house, but Edward got in her way. "Gianna hasn't
made up her mind yet," he said. "I wouldn't advise you to show up where
she is until that's changed. Alice is on her way here."

Maggie pouted, but stomped her way back to the edge of the fjord to wait
for Alice. The little spiky-haired vampire arrived a few seconds later,
and said, "So, I don't believe we've been properly introduced! I'm
Alice, and it's nice to meet you, Maggie."

"Nice to meet you too," said Maggie. "What do I have to do?"

"First of all," said Alice, "don't eat anybody. Gianna is quite
forgiving, but that *also* means she'll forgive Bella if you eat someone
and Bella kills you, and then where would you be?"

"...Dead, presumably," said Maggie, flicking her eyes in my direction. I
actually doubted I could beat Maggie in a one-on-one fight to the death,
since she was a lot older and more experienced than I was and that could
overwhelm the advantage of newborn strength, but of course I wouldn't be
alone if it came to that.

"Right, and then that wouldn't be at all conducive to you and Gianna
living happily ever after," said Alice reasonably. "So don't eat
anybody. And you really need to work on the thing where you talk about
or to Gianna like she's not a person. You've got way more leeway than
Edward had when he was trying to court Bella, but it's not infinite.
Don't act or talk like Bella owns Gianna. Don't act like the only
obstacles to you carrying Gianna over the horizon to have your way with
her are Bella or Ilario or any of the rest of us -- what Gianna wants has
to matter to you too. Get on Ilario's good side if you can or at least
make a sincere effort. Gianna cares what he thinks, and he's only going
to stay unsettled by the revelation he got today for a few more hours,
tops."

Maggie hadn't been present for Gianna's explanation of how her brother
had reacted, so I had to explain that when the redheaded vampire
protested confusion. Then Alice picked up again with more tips.

"You will have to be *very careful* with her upon being actually allowed
to touch her," Alice said. "You haven't had to handle any creature with
a heartbeat intending to let it live before, at least since you turned.
But you know they're very easy to hurt. Problem is, it actually matters
-- to you, even -- if you hurt Gianna. She's fragile. Don't break her."

"Of course I'd be careful!" cried Maggie.

"In more than half the futures where she decides to give you a chance,
she winds up with a broken bone or worse inside a week," said Alice
flatly. "In ninety percent of futures where you injure her enough that
she bleeds, you kill her." Maggie's jaw dropped. "This isn't a simple
matter, Maggie," Alice continued relentlessly. "You can never *stop*
being careful. You have to always, *always* pay very close attention and
exercise very careful control. *One* slip is enough to damage her. Two
in close succession is enough to kill her *at your own hands*."

Maggie whined. "I don't want to hurt her," she whispered.

"Then you have to be careful, constantly, without exception," said
Alice. "If you want to pet her hair, you have to make sure you don't
crush her skull. If you want to hold her hand, you have to make sure you
don't shatter her knuckles. Et cetera. Even if you don't get to the
point of injury, you can cause her pain *very* easily, so it's not like
handling a flower or a piece of paper or something that will be fine as
long as you don't cause any visible damage. You cannot, in a burst of
affection, hug her as tight as you possibly can."

Maggie hung her head. "I understand."

"Future's solidifying a bit in favor of her being okay," said Alice.
"Not all the way, though. It should go without saying that if you
seriously hurt Gianna, Ilario will do his best to kill you and he will
have help."

"Well, and he should, if I hurt her!" exclaimed Maggie. "I won't I won't
I won't I *won't*."

"That's better," said Alice, and Maggie brightened a little. "I think
that's enough *don'ts*. She's going to like it when you sing," Alice
supplied with a smug little grin.

Maggie beamed. "I can sing. I can sing all the time if she wants. I know
enough songs to fill up a whole year without repeating myself."

"And I foresee cuteness if you let her teach you Italian," Alice said.

Maggie nodded eagerly, waiting for more, but that was apparently it for
common threads among Alice's happy visions; the tiny psychic shrugged.

"You can't leave with her," I told Maggie. "If Gianna says she wants you
around, Esme's the person to ask about rooming arrangements."

Maggie looked desperately at Alice. "What's she going to *say*?" she
squeaked. "I didn't know any of this before, I just looked at her and --
and my brain was full of exclamation points. I didn't even know what was
going on, let alone what to do about it. I don't think I made a very
good first impression. Is she going to want me to go away forever? I
don't know if I *can!*" She wrung her hands. "What if she says I have to
go away and I can't even do that and then Ilario kills me and then later
she's a vampire and it turns out that she can't ever love anybody but
me? Then she'd be alone forever and she'd be sad!"

"And you'd be dead," I added helpfully.

"That too!" said Maggie. "But I don't know how I could just go home to
Ireland when she's -- she's *right there*."

"Edward, any tips?" I asked, glancing at my husband.

"Well, it took me longer to realize what I was dealing with than it's
taken Maggie," he chuckled softly, "and I had a sister to send to
intercede with you on my behalf."

"But if you know anything that could help," Maggie pleaded. "I can't
think of anything more important than making this work."

He pursed his lips. "When I've had to be away from you," he said,
addressing his statement to me but obviously intending that Maggie hear,
"what helped me tolerate it was knowing that you were all right. I...
didn't do well when I didn't know that." Alice nodded emphatically; I
supposed he'd been dramatically out of sorts when I'd been kidnapped.

"I could occasionally call you and let you know Gianna's safe, even if
she wants you gone," I told Maggie.

"That would be... better than not..." said Maggie unhappily, apparently
reluctant to positively label any state of affairs where Gianna wanted
her gone.

Alice and Edward both jerked their heads up simultaneously, and Maggie
startled with a small *eep* noise. "She's made up her mind," announced
Alice.

Sue
===

Gianna teaching Maggie Italian *was* very cute.

"How do I say, "I love you", in Italian?" Maggie asked Gianna, trying to
sound innocent. Gianna was sitting on a sofa with her feet tucked under
herself, using one of my textbooks to give structure to the lesson.
Maggie was lounging on the floor in front of the couch, gazing up
adoringly at an increasingly pink-cheeked Gianna.

Ilario, standing relatively unobtrusive guard in the corner of the room,
furrowed his brow uncomfortably while Gianna stammered through the
sentence. Maggie ignored him. She just grinned at Gianna and repeated
the words.

Maggie was trying to get Gianna to say "you're beautiful" in Italian
when I heard Carlisle's phone ringing in his office, and him answering
it. Tanya's voice was on the other end. "Carlisle," she said, "Harry's
gone."

I was up the stairs in a flash to listen to this conversation. "Gone?"
asked Carlisle. "How did that happen?"

"We've been trusting him to hunt on his own, ever since he ran into some
human's trail while he was hunting with Eleazar and managed to hold his
breath and run," she said. "He's been going on his own most of the time.
But he's been gone for almost three days now and isn't answering his
phone. We don't know what the matter is -- if he's hurt someone and is
ashamed to come home, or if he just decided to leave, or -- what. Can
Alice see?" Tanya asked.

"I'll ask her," Carlisle said, and he brushed past me in the hall to
find Alice. She was located in short order, with me following, and he
summarized the situation for her.

"I can see him... but not far," murmured Alice. "He's... I guess he
hasn't decided something very significant about what he's going to do
when he gets into Washington again. He's going south, though."

I went to the room with the computers and e-mailed Rachel.

* * * * *

Rachel took an hour to answer my e-mail. "If you're right about what
blanks out your sister's vision, then we have to expect that he's coming
here," she agreed in her reply. "I've warned Sue, and the pack. I'm not
sure how well he'll do with not attacking us, even if he's been okay
with humans, but we're sticking to groups of four and five for the time
being and think we can probably pin him if he's hostile. Please come out
here as soon as you can to help keep things under control, though. We
have to sleep and if we wind up pinning him we run a risk every time we
need to change guards."

I wrote back, asking if Sue had appeared to know anything about his
approach; the answer was quick: "I couldn't tell, but it's possible. She
refused to be accompanied by wolves as a precautionary measure and wants
to go about her business normally."

I sent her another message: "I'm going to buy tickets and I'll get there
by tomorrow, but Harry might arrive before me. However, he's been
demonstrated safe around humans. I don't think you need to worry about
Sue -- it's wolves who might be a problem."

I bought tickets. During that process, there was no further substantive
content from Rachel, just "see you soon". I logged off, found Edward,
dragged him to our cottage, used up the hour and a half that I didn't
need to make my flight on time, and then told him, "I need to leave
again."

He sighed. "All right."

"Can I ask you to pretend we're going to explore Scandinavia together?
I'll be the one to tell Maggie. I tested her earlier; unless she's got
an amazing poker face and doesn't care as much about the truth as you
say she does, I'm immune to her. I should be back in a few days, and
then we can really explore Scandinavia for a little while and I'll have
all the right stories to tell. And I'll be able to keep in touch by
phone. So you know I'm all right."

Edward nodded. I packed, and he put some things in a suitcase too so he
could go running around in parts nonlocal to give me cover. We went to
the main house, and distributed the news, with all false statements that
Maggie could hear carefully uttered by me and not Edward. I made it
clear that I was trusting everyone to keep Maggie from taking Gianna
away from the house, and no one contradicted me about the needfulness of
this restriction. Then Edward and I went to the garage.

Rosalie had bought me a car, which I'd managed to have no occasion to
look at since it had come to reside in our garage. It was dark green,
streamlined, and sat low to the ground, but otherwise wasn't the sort of
flashy vehicle screaming wealth that most of its neighbors were.
However, Edward drove me to the airport in one of his cars instead,
kissed me goodbye, and then drove away to explore Scandinavia -- alone.

* * * * *

I did not enjoy my flight. Anticipating the loneliness of being without
Edward made it kick in faster, apparently. I felt a moment's regret at
having ever activated the wolves, or at least at having done it when I
had -- they'd been unharmed, in fact completely unnoticed, by the Volturi
so far. If I hadn't started activating them until later, then my life
would be a lot simpler at this time and nobody would have died. Of
course, the nature of the threat the Volturi posed to the wolves was
such that I couldn't have predicted the timing in advance, and earlier
was safer for the tribe -- just inconvenient for me.

I didn't bother with a car once I landed, I just ran. I'd looked at
enough atlases to find a mostly unpopulated route from memory. I arrived
at the reservation in the evening on Friday, where I discovered the
tribe in chaos.

* * * * *

I could hear the barking and growling well before I saw anything, but to
hear Rachel tell it, scuffles between wolves were not at all uncommon. A
combination of emotions running high and reduced consequences due to
fast healing meant that *somebody* got scratched up a bit nearly every
day, and Alpha orders only did so much to counter wolf tempers. I could
tell that there were more than a couple of wolves involved, but fights
would vary in scope like everything else.

I was in no way prepared, when I arrived, for the *war* that the wolves
were waging amongst themselves.

No one seemed to be actually out to kill. There were drops of wolf blood
(mercifully undesireable to me), splattered around on the dirt and
vegetation and combatants, but no one had been injured badly enough to
be out of commission. I did a quick count: all thirty-two of the giant
pack were involved in the fracas. Before I could try to figure out who
was on whose side, the wind wafted past me and carried my scent towards
their battlefield.

The majority of the skirmish died down as nearly everyone stopped what
they were doing to look at me. One nearby wolf lunged to snap at me but
checked himself halfway through the attack -- or possibly was stopped by
Rachel commanding him to leave me be.

Rachel, the only entirely white wolf in a crowd of multicolored furs,
shot a dark look at one of the black ones -- that would be either Sam,
Becky, or a wolf I couldn't recognize by coat -- and walked towards me. A
wolf with striking ochre fur trotted a few steps into the forest and
came back with an outfit for her, from some stash of clothes they kept
among the trees. Rachel stalked off behind cover with it, assumed human
form, and came back into view a few moments later decently clad. She had
grown a *lot*. I was pretty sure she cleared six feet in height, and as
she'd said, she looked like she was on her way to the Olympics. And not
for figure skating.

"So..." I said. "What's all this, then?"

"It's a very, very long story," Rachel said stiffly.

"I'm immortal," I said.

She laughed once, a bit sharply. "Of course. Okay, so, ballpark, how
long would it take you to do some combination of running and swimming
between here and Denali?"

I mentally stitched together the various maps I'd looked at and did some
quick estimating. "Maybe twelve hours. It's not that densely populated a
coast, and if I did it at night... cars are only faster over developed
routes where there are highways."

"And you wrote me that this Tanya vamp only bothered to call your
father-in-law when Mr. Clearwater had been gone for *three* days,
right?" Rachel prodded.

"Right, that's what she said. Why?"

Rachel laughed hollowly. "Yeah, that's about what I thought. I don't
think this is the first time Mr. Clearwater's been down this way."

"What?" I exclaimed. "Is somebody hurt? Did he -" Rachel shook her head,
and I stopped, tilting my head.

"Don't think he ate anybody," she said. "Or if he did it wasn't anyone
we know and nobody's made a fuss over the missing yet. But Mrs.
Clearwater... is, uh..." Rachel gritted her teeth. "We *think* she's
*pregnant*."

I was fairly dumbfounded by this. "*Oh*," I said.

"I mean... she *looks* pregnant, and she seems to think she's pregnant,
and she's been eating really strangely and acting weird. But it's too
fast," fretted Rachel. "Even if he'd visited back in July when you
turned him it's *too fast*."

"It wouldn't have had to be July," I said. "A week or two ago would have
done it, although you're right that his most recent departure can't be
the first."

"Wait, you knew this could happen?" exclaimed Rachel.

"Half-vampires are possible, yes," I said. "Living mothers of
half-vampires, as far as I know, are *not*. Like you said -- too fast. It
doesn't slow down. The entire pregnancy lasts a month, start to finish,
and if the mother lives that long she dies when it's birthing time. I
have to get my father-in-law -- or at least my husband -- out here now,
and save her while there's still a chance."

"You'll probably have to talk to Mrs. Clearwater about that," said
Rachel ruefully. "She's not really cooperative."

"Explain?"

"Before we figured out she was pregnant, we all thought she was maybe
*sick*, but she wouldn't go to a doctor -- flat refused. Then we figured
it out while you were still in transit and told her that you've got
doctors in your family and a regular one wouldn't do because we have to
be all secret-secret, but a vampire doctor would be fine -- and she still
flat refused. I knew she wasn't, like, a huge fan of abortion, but she
*really* does not want one, one bit. Maybe if you tell her it's going to
kill her that'll be another story."

"I'll talk to her," I said. "What were you all fighting about?"

"Whether to force her," said Rachel quietly. "I mean, listen, we didn't
know what the hell it was going to turn out to be, it could have been
some unstoppable monster or even just like a newborn vampire is supposed
to be when it doesn't know to expect turning, something we'd have had to
kill anyway -- right? And, uh, some of the others wanted to kill it
whether Mrs. Clearwater liked it or not, to be safe."

She paused. "We... figured out how to split the pack. Becky seems to be
Alpha of *that* half now. She balked when I Alpha-voiced everybody that
Mrs. Clearwater's in charge of her own body, and everybody who agreed
with Becky answers to her, now, not me. I can still hear Becky's
thoughts and vice-versa, but the non-alphas can only hear within the...
sub-pack, plus relays when me and Becky are both wolfed. Anyway, it's
kind of a major issue, and we aren't very pacifistic critters at the
best of times. So there's been a lot of fighting and you walked in at
one of the worst times.

"I'm hoping you can get Mrs. Clearwater to see sense," she continued,
"and then it'll just be like we split the pack on purpose, like we were
trying to, but if you *can't* get her to see sense, I don't want to have
to hold her down while you get your husband to do the doctoring."

"Frankly, I'm in your camp," I said. "It's not an unstoppable monster,
and not even as bad as a regular newborn vampire. Might or might not
even be venomous. I think Sue'd be a fool to go through with having it,
since she'd die. But in so doing she wouldn't be unleashing hellspawn on
the world." The black wolf, who Rachel had looked daggers at before,
growled. "What do the Clearwater kids think?"

"Leah was on the fence until somebody had an excessively gruesome mental
image of what forcing Mrs. Clearwater to have an abortion might look
like, and now she's with me. Seth's in my camp too," Rachel said.

I nodded. "Well," I said, "take me to Sue."

Leah and Seth de-wolfed and came along too, following Rachel in silence.

* * * * *

My guess, when I saw Sue, was that she was almost two weeks pregnant --
the equivalent of being mid-second-trimester.

Her guess, when she saw me, was apparently that I was a vampire doctor
there to strap her to a table and forcibly cut her baby out of her,
because she made a very abortive attempt to flee. I supposed I looked
different enough that she didn't recognize me personally, and wouldn't
know what Rosalie looked like. When she tried to get up, Leah ran over
and seized her hands. "Mom, calm down," she said. "Don't hurt yourself."

"I told you no!" Sue cried, but she didn't try to fight Leah -- it would
have been pointless; the wolves were considerably stronger than humans
even without their fur on. "I told you *no*!"

"I'm not a doctor," I said, "I'm Bella." She relaxed a little, although
she still looked at me suspiciously. "However, I strongly advise you to
let me *get* a doctor. You aren't going to live through this if you
insist on continuing. It's happened before, half-vampires exist, but
their mothers *don't*."

"It's up to me," Sue said stubbornly.

"I don't dispute that for a moment," I said. "It's entirely up to you. I
won't even tell anyone who doesn't already know, if you don't want me
to. But honestly? Sue, you are an idiot. No one has ever lived through
this. An overwhelming majority of women who've tried didn't even carry
to term."

"How do *you* know so much about it, anyway?" she asked.

I summarized the story I'd gotten from Huilen and Nahuel. "My husband
and I thought that we could have *our* kids," I said. "We've got a
surrogate lined up and everything. But we weren't going to ask her to
*die* just for that -- and you and Harry *already have two children*."

"And we *wouldn't* if I'd killed *Leah* because *she* wasn't
convenient," spat Sue.

I looked over my shoulder at Leah, who shrugged; apparently her
accidental status was not news to her. "Be that as it may," I said,
"*this* one will kill you."

"You can't be sure of that," she said shiftily. "Harry would have died,
but..."

I blinked at her. "You didn't know *I* was coming, or you'd have known I
wasn't a doctor. Is Harry nearby? Did he say he'd turn you after you
give birth? It's -- well, it *would* be the best shot you have, but I
highly doubt that Harry can turn you safely."

"*You* turned *him*, and you're new," she said. Her stomach rumbled.
"Seth, dear, will you make me some more scrambled eggs?" she asked her
son apologetically, and Seth nodded and ran to the kitchen.

"I held my breath and poured venom into an existing open wound," I said.
"I don't doubt that you'll have one hell of a wound when your baby
*chews its way out of its shell*, but it'll be in the middle of your
abdomen, nowhere near the heart. The shell might interfere with getting
venom into your bloodstream properly. I mean, it has to contain venom
somehow, or the venomous half-vampire I met would have turned his mother
before *he* was born. She died instead. And it is *ridiculously* hard
for vampires to handle humans safely without experience and control that
Harry doesn't have, so if he tried to create another wound for the
venom, that could kill you all by itself."

By the time I finished this speech, Sue was looking at me speculatively.
"Well," she said, "thank you for that information."

I pressed the heel of my hand to my forehead. "Sue," I said. "Sue, this
is crazy. I flew out here away from my family because I heard Harry had
gone missing from Denali and I wanted to help control the situation. If
you ask me to hang around for another two weeks and turn you so you can
have this baby of doom with a sliver of a chance of living -" I shook my
head, about to offer to find a syringe in the Forks house somewhere and
fill it with venom that someone else could administer, but Sue spoke.

"Away from your *family*, hm?" Sue asked craftily.

My eyes flew open. "You *wouldn't*."

"Just because I won't kill my baby to do it doesn't mean I don't want to
live, Bella," said Sue in a falsely kind voice. "It's already getting
very difficult to keep your father in the dark, especially now when
everything would be ruined if he visited me in person. Billy's been
running interference, but I have to get on the phone with him sometimes
too. He's not a stupid man."

"Sue, you aren't just threatening to *embarrass* me if you bring in the
possibility of informing Charlie," I said frantically. "It's not that,
if it were that he'd have known months ago. There are vampire *laws*,
breaking any one of them is punishable by death, the lawmakers have
their eye on me and it wouldn't surprise me a *bit* if they were
covertly observing Charlie to make sure I haven't let him in on
anything. And it's not just me who'd be in trouble, they'd kill him
too."

"Aren't we paranoid," said Sue smugly.

"It's not *paranoia* when *my species is ruled by a mind-reading mass
murderer*," I said. "With similarly spooky people in his employ!"

Seth came back in with a huge plate of scrambled eggs, and Sue scarfed
them down, which prevented her from talking for a couple of minutes.
"You realize you're going to have to drink blood if you hope to live
through this," I said. "The baby's sucking up blood and if it can't get
it from your diet it'll just get it from you."

"Leah," said Sue lightly. Her daughter made a truly awful face, but I
heard her go outside and turn wolf, presumably to kill something and get
its blood for her mother.

"You don't need me here," I said. "I can find a hypodermic in the family
house in Forks, most likely -- Carlisle didn't bring all of his medical
stuff with him -- and fill it with venom. That's how my turning was
done."

"But you've *met* a half vampire, and his aunt who told you about how he
was born," said Sue. "If I'm going to live through this, I need an
expert, don't I?"

"Then let me call my husband," I said. "He was with me the entire time,
when I met them, and he's a doctor -" Sue scowled. "He won't make you do
anything you don't want to!" I protested. "But he'd know better than I
would how to take care of you, just in general!" I was really hoping
that he'd hear something in Sue's thoughts that would let him convince
her to give up on the have-a-half-vampire project. But the other remarks
were also true.

"No," she said. "No doctors. What if you're wrong about what he will and
won't do? I don't know your husband."

"Rrrgh!" I said, not quite growling, just too exasperated to bother with
language.

Seth's scorching hand patted my arm. "Please help my mom," he said in a
small voice. He looked older than I did at this point, but he was acting
his real age, which just squeaked him under the threshold of the ability
to get things by being cute and innocent.

"I'm trying," I told Seth. "Mrs. Clearwater, I am *really* quite sure
that my husband isn't going to assault you, especially not if I tell him
otherwise."

"Well, I'm not," Sue said.

I gave up. "Fine," I said. "Fine. Where is Harry?"

"I don't know exactly," she said. "He was heading back to Denali and
then I called him and told him I'm pregnant and he said he'd turn
around. He's presumably still on his way."

"If you don't mind my asking, how did you even manage to safely -" I
began. Seth giggled manically and Sue frowned.

"I do mind," she cut in, and I decided that I'd been rude enough that
she deserved to interrupt me -- just the once. "But I assume you already
knew about those tarts Harry's had to live with up in Alaska."

"Tanya and Kate?"

"And Irene or whatever her name was, for all that she's apparently
settled down since her heyday," sniffed Sue.

"Irina," I said. "You know that for the first several hundred years they
never went in with a plan to leave the humans alive, right?"

"I said," Sue said coldly, "that I *do* mind."

I sighed. Evidently she'd been left unharmed (at least directly) by the
experience, though. I'd assumed from the first time I'd heard about the
succubus sisters that it was a matter of gender that they were able to
leave their toys alive after becoming vegetarians while Edward had no
such expectation. Since learning a few more things, I was half-convinced
that he'd only been covering for his concerns about extramarital
relations. Or that they'd at least been a significant factor. Anyway,
there was nothing of practical import to be found along this line of
inquiry.

Leah chose this moment to return with a large bowl full of animal blood
-- elk or somthing like it, I guessed, although my experience with the
land fauna of the Pacific Northwest was limited. Leah herself was
covered in little red dots. Extracting the blood had apparently been
messy. Sue accepted the bowl and, with rather impressive aplomb, sipped
from it. Apparently pleased with the flavor, she drained the bowl.

"It probably wants human blood, you realize," I said. "Nahuel said he
can live on animal blood or even food that humans eat, but he's an adult
and can consciously decide what to have for lunch. The baby can't do
that, and may or may not continue to siphon off what *you* need to stay
alive unless you give it human blood via your diet."

"And where do you propose we get that?" she asked testily.

I held up my hands. "For your purposes it doesn't have to be enough to
hurt its source. But I can't extract it and neither can Harry. I'm sure
there are any number of tribe members you could ask."

"Most of them are in favor of *killing* my baby," Sue said. "I don't
think there will be many volunteers to donate blood to keep him
healthy."

I assumed she was just guessing on the gender and decided it wasn't
worth nitpicking. "Or," I said, "you could let me call my husband -- hang
on now, let me finish -- doctors can buy blood. I don't have to tell him
what it's for. He trusts me implicitly. I can probably get him to tell
me what I need to do and say and what papers I need to have forged to
buy some blood. He'll think that's a little weird but he won't ask
awkward questions. And it'll come in a sealed up package and I'll just
have to leave the building while you drink it."

Sue looked skeptical. "What kind of husband is it that you have that you
can call him up and get him to tell you how to buy human blood -- which
you shouldn't be drinking -- without explaining what it's for?"

I bristled, and almost hissed, but I didn't want to provoke Leah or Seth
into phasing with a threatening noise. That was *my* Edward she was...
sort of vaguely implying a mild insult towards. Which was not nice, but
it didn't really call for hissing either. "Remember," I said, "my
species is ruled by a mind-reading mass murderer. You know, the entire
reason why I activated the pack in the first place. I'm the only person
I know of in the world he can't read. My husband knows that it's safer
if he doesn't know everything. And he *trusts me*."

Sue pursed her lips. "I'll let you try that if it looks like I need more
than I can get from people in the tribe. Rachel, would you mind being
the one to ask around? You'll be more likely to get agreement than most
people who might try." Rachel had been standing very quietly, watching
the conversation.

"Of course, Mrs. Clearwater," she sighed.

"If that's all," I said, "I'll be leaving for a bit too. I need to tell
Edward I'm okay and how long I'll be gone, and then I want to hunt." I
looked at Rachel. "I don't think I'd be very helpful at keeping the
fighting to a minimum, but if you can think of something useful for me
to do, let me know. I may as well help out as long as I'm going to be
around for two weeks."

Sue had no objection, so Rachel and I left the house: her to pretend to
be from the Red Cross, me to find some way to tell Edward that I was
going to be gone for two entire weeks.

Less, if Sue died.

* * * * *

I called Edward. We talked for about an hour, getting sappy over how
terribly long a span of time two weeks was. Then I found and ate a
killer whale, and wandered the beach for a couple of hours. Seth found
me at about three in the morning, and said that his dad had arrived.

Harry did not look like a happy vampire when I went to talk to him. He
was hanging out in an old, secluded shack in the woods near the
reservation, to avoid provoking wolves in Becky's pack. The building
smelled enough like Sue that I guessed this was where she'd met her
husband.

"Hey," I said by way of greeting. Harry shifted position uncomfortably,
still unable to discern that I was a person -- and having plenty of other
reasons to be unhappy besides that -- but he waved. "How much did Seth
already tell you?" I asked, as the young werewolf departed.

"Most everything," said Harry hollowly. "You really think she'll die?"

"The odds aren't good," I said honestly. "I know of four live
half-vampires and ten who didn't make it to being born, have reason to
believe that I haven't heard of all the ones who didn't make it, and
have never heard of one whose mother lived. That having been said, it
*is* likely that Sue has a better chance than any of them did -- even
without accepting a doctor's help, which would make me far more
optimistic than I am. I think the other hybrids' father didn't care at
all about their moms, and didn't try to look after them or turn them
when they gave birth."

"But you still think she should abort," Harry said.

"Yes," I said. "It's an insane risk to take even with the available
possibility that she'll live. This isn't just a little dicey, it's
something that literally no one has ever lived through. But she won't.
She won't even let me tell Edward anything, far from letting him show up
with the relevant tools."

"I didn't know it was possible," murmured Harry. "I thought... I mean,
the Denalis never had to bother with... anything."

"The Denalis of whom you speak are all three of them female," I said.
"It's different the other way around, although I didn't know that for
sure around when I turned you. It didn't occur to me that it'd be
information you needed, but in retrospect I wish I'd mentioned it." I
sighed. "I'm so sorry."

"I missed her so much," Harry said softly. "And she was only getting
harder to remember as time went by and I couldn't stand it, that I might
forget her, that she might not want to see me again -- and I knew I
shouldn't just run from Denali straight to her immediately, that I
wasn't safe, but after I was able to be around a human without killing
him the only thing left was to convince her to see me. And then almost
two weeks later she finally said she'd meet me here, and I was making
regular visits, but I guess I stayed too long this time because the
Denalis noticed and called... but it's good you're here."

"You should call the Denali of your choice and say you've decided to
move out and live on your own," I said. "That way they won't expect you
back. Since you've demonstrated to them that you're safe around humans,
they won't have any interest in tracking you down."

"I should," muttered Harry. He took out his phone and dialed Eleazar's
number. "Hello," he said, when the ex-Volturi picked up. I quit
breathing and held perfectly still, to avoid making noises which Eleazar
would hear.

"Harry?" asked Eleazar's voice.

"It's me," Harry said. "It occurred to me that you'd wonder where I'd
gone... I decided to move out. You know I've been having trouble getting
along with Laurent and Irina and Kate and Tanya and David... I thought
it would just be best if I left. I haven't eaten anyone. I'm not going
to start. I just want to live by myself now."

"Well... all right, Harry, if that's what you want," Eleazar said
reluctantly. "But know that you're welcome back any time, and that if
you need anything, you can call us."

"Thank you," Harry said softly. "I'll let you know if my phone number
changes. Thank you for letting me into your home, and please pass on my
thanks to Carmen as well. Goodbye."

"I will," Eleazar promised. "Goodbye, Harry."

Harry clicked his phone closed, and I started breathing again. It was
mildly uncomfortable not to, just because it deprived me of a sense,
although I had plenty of practice from my habit of underwater hunting
and resorted to holding my breath more readily than my family tended to.
Harry said, "I should have thought to do that as soon as I'd been gone
longer than they were used to."

"I'm kind of surprised that they didn't get curious about
twenty-four-hour-plus departures earlier," I said.

"I told them I was just exploring, that I liked to be alone," he said.
"It's a big park. And they knew I wasn't that fond of most of the
group."

"Fair enough," I said. I heard someone approaching the house on two feet
at a relaxed walk; probably Leah or Seth with some news or question.

"Please don't let my wife die," Harry said suddenly. "I don't know how I
can do without her. And Seth is so young, he can't lose his mother."

"I will do everything I can short of assaulting her to keep her alive,"
I said. "But she's not letting me be as helpful as I'd like. Maybe you
can do a better job of talking her into letting me bring Edward in."

"She's very stubborn, Sue is," murmured Harry.

And that was the end of that conversation, because at that moment, the
door slammed open and there stood Charlie.

* * * * *

At first, we all just stared at each other. There *was* a chance,
however remote, that Charlie would not recognize me or Harry --
especially not in the dark; it wasn't even four a.m. and I had no idea
what would have possessed him to go wandering through the woods at such
an hour. Supersonic and fast, I told Harry, "If he doesn't recognize us
pretend we're lost and don't speak English."

Charlie shot that plan to hell immediately -- "*Harry*?"

I was almost offended that he'd recognized Harry and not me, but of
course he had reason to think Harry might be anywhere at all, whereas
last he'd checked I'd been in Norway playing newlywed truant. Also, this
was apparently Harry's shack.

"...Hello," said Harry.

"Harry, is that you?" demanded Charlie. "What are you doing here? What's
up with your face? Billy and your wife have been giving me the runaround
-- and who's this?" He gave me a closer look, and I held very still,
trying to avoid projecting any mannerisms that would make me look
familiar. "Are... you..."

"Charlie," said Harry, momentarily distracting my father from his
attempt at figuring out what was going on with me. "Please trust me.
It's not good for you to be here. Please go home, go to bed, and wake up
and think of it like a dream."

"Hell no," said Charlie, and a little candle-flame of hope in the land
of metaphors winked out. "I could have let it go if you disappeared for
a week and wouldn't explain, but Harry, I haven't gotten a verifiable
story about where you've gotten to since July! Billy and Sue contradict
each other, they contradict themselves, you're always sick or visiting
relatives or running some mighty long errands, and I just don't buy it
for nearly two months straight, my friend. And Sue hasn't let me drop by
and check in on her for the last couple of days either. Her kids chased
me off when I tried last night -- I swear Leah looked like she might bite
my head off."

"Charlie, I'm fine," said Harry. "I'm completely fine. And that's all
you need to know, and it is very important that that be all you know,
and I think you should go home and go to bed now."

"Not that simple anymore," Charlie said. "I have co-workers. Sometimes I
mention stuff to them. I told 'em I couldn't get ahold of you, end of
July. Came up again in conversation last week. *I* was willing to trust
Billy and Sue pretty far, but they're not the other cops' friends. And
cops start wondering what's going on when somebody goes missing that
long and his wife and a friend of the family are running interference.
This is me wandering around every place you might be hiding at an
ungodly hour of the morning so on Monday, Rick doesn't ask me 'hey, did
your friend Harry turn up yet' and I have to say 'nope' and he has to
launch an investigation."

I failed to restrain a curse word.

Charlie looked at me again.

"Young lady," he said, and my still heart sank, "I don't care what
freaky stuff you've gotten into -- keep a civil tongue in your head."

* * * * *

"And you got here how?" Charlie asked me, about an hour and a half
later.

"I flew," I said.

"You can *fly*, too?!"

"On an *airplane,*" I said. "Are you *absolutely* sure you aren't being
followed or tracked at all? You haven't noticed any weird, pale people
hanging around, there haven't been any unexplained disappearances in a
radius of a hundred miles besides Harry...?"

"Not that I've noticed," muttered Charlie. I thought he might be
disappointed that I couldn't fly. "But if it's a... you seriously call
yourselves "vampires"?"

"That's the English term, yes, for immortal creatures that drink blood,"
I sighed. I'd been explaining Things You May Not Have Known About The
World 101 to Charlie since it had become clear that his cooperation
would be necessary to keep the secret from exploding any farther beyond
its current straining boundaries. He was so uncomfortable with the
concept that I thought if only he'd stumbled across something he
shouldn't have seen five or six weeks ago, he'd have blocked it all out
of his mind and done the cover-up on request without needing to know
details. As it was, the runaround he'd gotten was not letting him feel
satisfied with partial explanations.

"If a vampire's following me, I wouldn't necessarily have noticed,"
Charlie said.

"There's nobody else within a couple of miles, anyway," said Harry
quietly. The edge of the inhabited part of the reservation was four
miles away from the shack, and Harry's range seemed to be about three
miles, irrespective of whether he knew the people he was sensing or not.
The shack itself had unclear origins but had been a haunt of Harry's
since he'd been a kid; Charlie had been there once before, when Harry
had been trying to generate interest in repairing it for some purpose or
other that neither of them recalled.

"So you weren't followed *here*," I said, "at least not closely. That's
good. I might have been overcautious; goodness only knows how many
people the Volturi would *like* to have an eye on, but they've only got
so much staff to spread around. But Dad, that doesn't mean you can talk
about this to anybody. *Not anybody* except Quileutes, they're okay, and
certain individuals they've had no choice but to tell. If enough people
find out, it will cause a big enough stir that the Volturi will
*definitely* find out, and definitely intervene."

Charlie nodded slowly. "What about Sue?" he asked finally. "Is she all
right?"

I bit my lip as Harry struggled through an explanation. Charlie's
expression grew darker as he heard the story of her pregnancy, the
wolves' split, and Sue's refusal to let me so much as ask Edward how to
get human blood. "Would it help at all if I talked to her?" he asked
quietly.

"I'm going to try, when she's woken up later this morning," Harry said.
"I only got here a few hours ago. If I can't, you're welcome to give it
a shot -- but I don't think she's going to budge."

"Wouldn't surprise me," said Charlie, looking at the ceiling. It was
hard for me to guess how much he could make out in the little moonlight
filtering in through the windows. My night vision wasn't something I'd
ever written about extensively before turning.

"You look tired," I said.

"A bit," he admitted. "I have tomorrow off, though, so it won't do me so
much harm to pull an all-nighter."

"You have to sleep, Dad. You're not a vampire," I said. "Yet."

"Oh-ho-ho no, Bells," he said. "That's -- not -- no."

"It'd be safer," I said. "In a wide variety of ways."

Charlie shook his head. "Bells, I know you don't take after me this way,
but I put down roots. I can't disappear from my life."

"Okay, well -- think about it," I said. "Now that you know and you can't
un-know... offer's on the table. Say the word and I'll do it."

"Not likely, Bells."

"I guess I can just send you the un-photoshopped versions of my wedding
photos," I sighed.

"That," Charlie said, "will be good enough for me."

* * * * *

Harry, Charlie, another attempt by me, a plea from Rachel, Leah's
badgering, and Seth's puppy eyes did nothing to persuade Sue on any
count.

However, the fact that she could no longer threaten to tell Charlie on
me meant that I didn't have to wait for her to agree to anything --

Which meant that I was pacing around in her backyard arguing with myself
about whether to go against her wishes or not.

An important consideration that I was wrestling with was how much of my
desire to call Edward and get him to come was *just that*. Honestly, I
*did* hate keeping secrets from him. It didn't feel right. The fact that
Charlie didn't seem to be under surveillance wasn't making it feel any
more urgent. I hated being away from Edward for more than a few hours at
a time.

In an attempt to separate out what of my feelings was about *Edward* and
what was about *getting Sue medical help*, I contemplated calling
Carlisle instead. Carlisle had more medical expertise. If I told him
what was going on, he'd probably take the time off work and show up and
help Sue. He couldn't read her mind and find an argument that would
convince her to accept what she *most* needed, but he was a charismatic
and pleasant enough person that he might have a shot at it anyway. I
ignored for the purposes of the thought experiment the fact that Edward
could read *Carlisle's* mind, and therefore bringing Carlisle into the
picture would be two people learning about the wolves and the
Clearwaters' predicament, not just one.

I found, predictably enough, that I was less enthusiastic about calling
Carlisle. Or, when I tried another substitution, Rosalie. I just wasn't
as keen on hauling them into the situation. Partly, I felt less entitled
to their time -- while they'd really be coming for Sue, not me, the
entire issue was ultimately my own fault since I'd activated the wolf
who'd mauled the man I'd had to turn who'd knocked up his wife with a
dangerous baby.

I decided that was silly, disregarded it, and identified the other
reason I didn't feel much like phoning them besides their mere
non-Edwardness. If I had to bring in someone other than my very own
Edward, then *I* wasn't personally handling the situation. It wasn't
just that I wasn't entitled to ask them for help. If I told them I felt
that way they -- well, Carlisle at least, perhaps not Rosalie -- would
think I was being silly and that of course I could ask for whatever I
needed.

Edward, on the other hand, felt and acted like almost an extension of
myself. I didn't even think he'd dispute the description. If I got
*Edward* to help me with something, it still felt like I had
accomplished the something -- I had this impression about my ability to
keep my whereabouts secret even though he was covering my
continent-hopping.

With all of this sifted out, I came to the conclusion that I didn't
*actually* think it was important to force medical interventions on Sue
that she wouldn't accept when offered. It was also beginning to look
like she was not capable of being convinced. I'd known that earlier,
really, or I would have sided with Becky and I would have found some way
to physically prevent Sue from telling Charlie anything when threatened.
(For instance, it would not have been at all difficult to take away her
phone, and her kids had already started chasing him off from attempting
to visit her in person.) So, no Edward. Or at least no physical presence
of Edward.

I called him again.

Delivery
========

Sue got worse.

Every day, she was visibly more pregnant, and not just to vampire eyes.
I hung around in Harry's shack when she drank her human blood, as did
Harry. As I'd suspected, werewolf blood was not palatable to her revised
sense of taste; she was able to stand the blood of inactive carriers of
the gene, like Billy, but preferred typical humans' offerings. Charlie
was the first donor, stuck and inexpertly drained by a wolf in Rachel's
pack who'd spent a few months in nursing school before droppping out.
Someone in Rachel's pack would come let us know when it was all safely
consumed and we could be in the room again, but there wasn't much to be
done.

Sue didn't move around much. She was getting thinner and spindlier
everywhere but her belly, which became huge -- too huge. She was
constantly hungry. Mostly she wanted eggs, but we made her eat anything
that we thought might help -- spinach, assorted meat, anything loaded up
with starch and sugar for quick cheap energy. She was usually hungry, so
it wasn't too hard to make her eat. Between meals, she drank a constant
stream of juice, and occasionally puked.

The baby started breaking her ribs. It was hard to tell, without any
fancy medical equipment or knowhow, whether any given *snap* was a new
rib or an already broken rib fractured in a new place; we stopped
counting, after a while.

She decided to name the baby "Cody".

Since she was quite confident that it was a boy, she let Harry
unilaterally pick a backup girls' name, which he did with some obvious
mixed feelings; he settled on "Maya". I commented that they sure liked
names with four letters, and he nodded, but his mind was entirely
somewhere else.

It should have been a cute and touching thing to learn that, yes, Harry
really was supposed to be with his wife forever -- but "forever" was
looking to be cut short. Sue sometimes just outright lost consciousness.
It was only for a few minutes at a time, but it never failed to send
Harry into a panic. Even when she was awake or in a normal sleep, he
wasn't in good shape. He paced the house. He gingerly held Sue's hand,
terrified of injuring her and giving her overtaxed body more to keep up
with. He made appeals to every non-wolf on the reservation who Rachel
couldn't convince to donate blood, succeeding only once but redoubling
his efforts every time she passed out again or made a face at a bowl of
animal blood.

There wasn't really much for me to do to help her. I told Harry
absolutely everything that Nahuel and Huilen had told me, and had no
further expertise available. Sue was adamant that I not go home -- if
baby Cody-or-Maya was going to chew its way out of its shell, it might
serve to have a vampire present to get that part over and done with
faster so Sue could get started turning. Wolves' teeth and claws were
sharp enough to cut vampire skin, and could probably break the shell,
but they didn't have the necessary dexterity in that form to do it
carefully.

I searched high and low in the family home in Forks, and eventually did
find a kit with medical equipment. I didn't recognize most of it, but
found a few syringes that looked like the ones Ilario had been turned
with. I took them and then had nothing useful to do until the baby of
doom decided to come along. Mostly I loitered, wished Edward were there,
and let Seth distract himself from his mother's plight by telling me all
the pack drama.

"Sam's in Becky's pack now, so I think Leah's feeling a little better
about being a wolf," he said one afternoon. We were wandering along the
beach. "He took longer to decide than most of us, but I think maybe he
was just being nice to Leah, going with Becky." I hadn't spoken to Becky
or anyone in her pack since arriving. They were sticking to the half of
the reservation that didn't contain the Clearwater house, having come to
a very uneasy agreement about letting Cody/Maya live given that he or
she wasn't doomed to be hellspawn.

"Well, I wouldn't expect his imprinting on Emily to make him *hate*
Leah," I said. "Heck, Becky split the entire pack by countering the
Alpha voice over a disagreement with Rachel and I don't think they hate
each other. Regular love isn't *as* powerful as the magic kind, but it's
something."

"I don't think Sam does hate her, but Leah feels like it," said Seth.

"Wouldn't all the mindreading you guys get up to simplify this question
rather a lot?"

"There's a lot of us. It's a little easier now that there's only half as
many, but there's a lot to keep track of, and lots of echoes. Leah
didn't like to listen to Sam at all, so she didn't try to check whether
he hated her, I guess."

"How do you feel about imprinting?" I asked him. "It's, what, five of
the guys who have done it now?"

"Yeah," Seth said. "I don't think I want it. It seems to mess stuff up."

"Jared's didn't," I pointed out, naming the boy who'd fallen for a
classmate with a preexisting crush on him.

"No, his didn't," acknowledged Seth. "But all the others did at least a
little. Sam was just worst."

"What about the guy who fell for the girl from Forks?" I asked. "What'd
that do? I didn't get a lot of details."

"Her dad is kind of racist," said Seth. "He doesn't like that she's
dating him because he's not white, and she can't tell him why she's
doing it, so he thinks it's to annoy him."

"Yikes. I hope her boyfriend can keep from ripping her dad's head off."

"It's been close, once," Seth said seriously. "It's really hard for some
of us to keep our cool. We're supposed to protect human life, that's the
point of us, but then we get all this temper."

"Is it getting easier over time?" I asked.

"Yeah," Seth said, "and we can all heal really well and Rachel's been
smart about making sure that when we're having a hard day we're away
from people who aren't in the pack. I'm handling it okay, better than
some people."

I nodded. "You seem pretty mellow in general. You can even stand being
around me and the scent of evil, minty flowers."

"It's good that I can, because now my dad's a vampire too and my
mom's... going to be," said Seth, troubled again. The point of this walk
had been to *distract* him...

"I'm hoping I can eventually convince my dad to turn," I said, instead
of speculating as to how a half-vampire would smell to a werewolf.

"How come?" asked Seth.

"Well, he can't be one of you guys, and he can't be a half-vampire, and
humans -- regular ones -- are -" Bringing up human mortality seemed like a
*bad* conversational topic to the kid with the dying mom, for all that
she might have a *better* chance of escaping it than my
less-dramatically withering parents. "Just not as awesome."

"I do like most things about being a wolf," said Seth philosophically,
and then he added, "Want to race?"

He phased, and we raced up the deserted beach -- I won by a hair. Rachel
was faster than me, but also faster than most wolves.

When I next stopped by to check on Sue, she was worse.

She was worse every time I looked at her, and it managed to surprise me,
every time.

* * * * *

"How about this idea," I said to Sue, after I'd been kicking about the
reservation for a little over a week.

"If it involves calling your husband, the answer is no," Sue said
sharply.

"It doesn't," I said. "Or doesn't have to, anyway. But Nahuel was born
not just *healthy*, he was *ambulatory* -- he lived for three whole days
without any help or care *at all* in the middle of the *jungle* and was
perfectly unharmed when Huilen was able to move around again. You're out
of human blood donors who can safely give you more to drink, you're
passing out all the time, you have goodness knows how many broken ribs --
if it gets your spine or manages to detach the placenta, he could wind
up killing himself."

"I'm listening," said Sue guardedly.

"C-section," I said. "One big cut, pull the baby out shell and all, and
then start turning you because even if you magically stopped being
pregnant right now I'm not sure how you'd hold up long term, as weak as
you've gotten. I don't have the resources to put you in a coma, but that
won't make turning ineffective, just more unpleasant. Me or Harry can
break the shell -- holding breaths as necessary with plenty of warning,
instead of maybe being surprised by it chewing its way out and making
the room smell like your blood while we're inhaling. The baby will be
premature, but it should be okay."

"I've been pregnant for three weeks now," Sue said, "out of a pregnancy
that's supposed to last a month. That's not just a little bit premature,
that's like inducing labor in the second trimester."

"At the *end* of the second trimester, and -- we don't know how these
things decide that it's time to start gnawing on their moms," I said.
"We *do* know that Nahuel was not just a *little* more advanced than a
human infant when he was born. We *do* know that your midsection is big
enough to hold a pretty good-sized baby, or two -- we aren't talking
about extracting something two inches long without well-defined internal
organs. Since there's plenty of care available for your baby, if it
turns out to need it -- it doesn't have to find its own food in the
middle of nowhere or anything -- I honestly think that it would be safer
for both of you to operate now rather than deliver it in an emergency
later."

Sue looked at me suspciously, and then the baby kicked her again. One
more tiny snap.

She winced.

"Fine," she said under her breath.

* * * * *

The logistics were these:

I would perform the cut, with a scalpel pilfered from Carlisle's medical
kit. Harry didn't think he could manage to wield the implement against
his wife, even for its beneficial purpose. Syringes -- full of Harry's
venom, not mine -- were at the ready on her bedside table. When I'd
pulled out the shell with the baby in it, I was to break it, while Harry
would inject her. I'd described for his benefit what I'd seen of
Ilario's turning, and he knew where to aim.

"There's no anaesthesia for the surgery," Harry fretted, while I was
dousing the scalpel in rubbing alcohol for a probably-unnecessary
sterilization.

"Harry," I said. "You're going to *turn* her. If you're going to worry
about having no anaesthesia, at least worry about *that*, not a *cut*."
He nodded morosely.

Their children were going to hold onto her arms and legs so she didn't
thrash too far and throw off my aim. After she was shot up with venom,
we'd move her to the shack to finish up the transformation without human
prey nearby. She had all the advance information, so there was every
reason to expect her adjustment to be as smooth as mine. Better than
Ilario, who'd learned that vampires really *were* real when he was
barely capable of keeping his eyes open; better than Harry, who'd known
all the myths but placed no stock in any of them until the moment his
werewolf daughter sprang.

There was every reason to be optimistic, but the mood as we assembled in
that close little room that stank of ill health was a dim one. Still,
Leah dutifully took hold of her mother's ankles and Seth grabbed her
wrists. I clutched my scalpel, Harry had a syringe in each hand, and we
waited for Sue to give us the go-ahead.

I held my breath.

In the back of my mind, some little voice was screaming, *This is not
the way of things! You are not a doctor! You don't know what you're
doing at all! You could kill Sue -- you could kill her baby -- Harry's
never been near human blood at all since turning, what if*he*reacts to
more than the smell and holding his breath won't do? What if -- what if --
do a safer thing -*

But this *was* the safer thing, even if it had me holding a knife, even
if it had me acting instead of waiting.

And I hushed that little voice, and looked into Sue's eyes.

"Go," she said.

* * * * *

I had no idea what I was doing.

It wasn't *hard* to cut her open, but I was trying to do it with the
sharpness of the scalpel more than the brute force that would have let
me pry her open with my bare hands, and it wasn't a balance I was
familiar with. It *was* hard to ignore her labored breathing, her
periodic screams, Seth's small whine, and the sudden notion that if
anything would cause a werewolf to phase uncontrollably it *might* be
witnessing their mother inexpertly carved up by a vampire.

I'd found time to borrow a computer and look up whatever I could on
C-sections, which told me more than I needed to know about the etymology
of the term and less than I needed to know to get a half-vampire out of
Sue.

The scalpel wasn't sharp enough to cut the shell, so that told me where
to stop, at least. I made a big crescent-shaped incision, not expecting
to be able to get something roundish and nigh-indestructible out of a
straight line. When I set down the instrument and tried to grab the
shell, trying to hurry, and yanked, Sue's entire body jerked up with it.
The shell was *embedded*. I'd let up the pulling soon enough to avoid
breaking her spine, but it couldn't have been good for her already
splintering ribs.

She howled again, and I could hear Leah grinding her teeth. I picked up
the scalpel again and tried to cut away more flesh from the shell, but
it was no good, it was stuck on all sides. Sue's heart started
stuttering, and there was blood everywhere.

If I couldn't get the shell out, I had to open it while it was still
attached.

"Breathe, Mom," pleaded Seth, his eyes screwed shut.

My hands were *strong*, but they were not *sharp*.

My teeth were *sharp*, but they were in my *mouth*, and there was so
much blood, and I *knew* that one taste would be the end of Sue.

I reached over her, pried Harry's mouth open, and ripped one of his
canines from his gums.

While Harry hissed with pain, I swiped his tooth over the shell, then
rinsed it in the alcohol I'd used to sterilize the scalpel and handed it
back to him. He put it back in his mouth before any of the non-vampires
in the room had even figured out what I was doing, and then there was a
break in the shell that I could force my fingers into and lever open.

Inside was a tiny, warm baby boy with a heartbeat like a buzz, in a bath
of viscous, clear fluid that smelled a lot like vampire venom. Sue
started gurgling.

I reached in and picked him up. With my reserved air, I told Harry,
"Now." The fluid stung my skin a little, but dried quickly when exposed
to air and didn't seem to have done any permanent damage.

Harry lifted the first syringe and thrust it into Sue's heart.

* * * * *

Cody bit me with his full complement of teeth the moment after his
mother started howling at the burn of the venom, even as Harry picked up
the second syringe and emptied it into the secondary pulse points. She
didn't need to keep still anymore, so Leah and Seth let her go, and
Harry was holding her instead. He told her that he loved her, but
couldn't talk much -- until her blood was all dry he couldn't replenish
his air without leaving her side.

The bite hurt -- a *lot*. I jerked Cody's face away from my arm
reflexively, and Leah must not have liked the way I was handling him,
because she grabbed him from me at once. I rubbed the tiny double
crescent wound on my wrist, which was whitening and puffing up with the
scarring venom. There was not going to be any way to hide that. I'd at
least have a while to think of stories.

"Leah, he's -" I began, but Cody had already chomped on her thumb. She
dropped him.

Leah screamed, which, for someone who had just been bitten by a venomous
creature, was normal. Her thumb was turning green, which was not normal.

It was only to be expected that werewolves would react differently to
vampire venom, and not in a good way. I didn't wait to see what would
happen if the substance spread: I seized Leah's hand and pinched her
thumb off.

The severed thumb fell to the floor and Leah phased, snarling; the
nightstand fell over and a lamp broke when she wound up with a hind leg
in the wrong place. She was missing a digit from the paw corresponding
to the one with the injured thumb, but it was healing over rapidly, and
was not an abnormal color. She only narrowly missed stepping on her baby
brother, who didn't appear to have been injured by his fall one bit and
was happily staring up at her furry neck. He picked up the thumb, put it
in his mouth, and then discarded it, uninterested. A burst-open sleeve
from Leah's shirt drifted down and landed on his face, and he giggled.

Seth, who'd witnessed the entire sequence of events, had the presence of
mind to drag Cody away from Leah by his feet, preventing him from biting
again. Leah panted, whined, and finally got herself furless again. She
grabbed the less bloody of the two pillows on the bed to cover herself
with (the blankets being complete losses). Seth, leaving Cody burbling
happily on the floor, ran to get her replacements.

Sue was not nearly as quiet a turner as Harry had been. She screamed,
wordlessly, incoherently, possibly even ignorant of Harry's presence.

I was already going to have to explain one scar, and at least Cody's
bites wouldn't leave me permanently deprived of any extremities. I
picked up the baby -- one hand under his head, one under the rest of his
body, positioning him in a way least likely to present a chewtoy target.
I carried him out of the blood-soaked room, and downstairs to the
bassinet that Seth had pulled out of the attic the day before, where I
placed him. Leah followed me down the stairs, having gotten herself
dressed. Seth went past us, murmuring, "I'll let everyone know how it
went."

"Can you breathe here?" Leah asked me in a low voice.

I took a small taste of the air, testing it. The smell was faint -- just
a few droplets of mostly-dry blood on myself and the little of it that
wafted down the stairs. In a pinch, the fact that Sue was Harry's mate
ought to let me pull in self-defense instincts the way I had in the
Amazon Basin. "If I have to," I told her. I heard Harry, presumably with
Sue in tow, leaping out the window to carry her to the less inhabited
shack.

"Dad isn't going to want to leave Mom while she's... for the next few
days," Leah said. "I'm, uh, missing a thumb, now. I don't know if I heal
well enough to grow it back, especially since it looks like it's healing
to a stump. So I don't think I can really handle Cody until he learns
not to bite people. Same with Seth. And if he bites somebody who's not a
wolf they'll just... like Mom."

"Right," I said, beginning to guess where she was going with this.

"Can you... babysit my brother?" she asked tentatively. "Just until Dad
can take over."

"All you have to do is keep away from his teeth," I said. "He's pretty
durable -- more than you are, almost as much as I am. I doubt you're
going to hurt him if you handle him strangely to avoid getting chomped.
Besides, I'd need to avoid getting bitten too." I pointed out my new
scar.

"The risks are different," insisted Leah. "You grabbed Dad's tooth right
out of his mouth without explaining -- he could've bitten you."

"If I'd used mine, I would've been too distracted by the pain to make
the cut carefully until it healed and made it hard to put the tooth
back. I didn't have enough air to explain my idea so Harry could do it
with one of my teeth. Anyway, he didn't bite me."

"But you *are* in way less danger from a Cody bite," Leah said.

"Remember the part where Nahuel lived on his own in the jungle for three
days until Huilen could take care of him? You could just leave him in
the bassinet and feed him blood or infant formula or whatever you decide
to give him, with a long miniature ladle or a baster or something, and
count his toes once in a while for contact. In three days Sue'll be
turned and his parents can take care of him, and in a week or two he'll
be talking and you can tell him that there is No Biting Allowed."

Cody chose this moment to fall asleep. He was a rather cute baby,
really. He already had a thin dusting of black hair, and he was standard
Native American colored, not Harry's ecru. "Please," said Leah. "I'm
missing my *thumb* -- I mean, thank you for getting it off, otherwise
it'd probably be my whole arm or I'd be dead or something -- but there's
only so many amputations I can take."

"If you do it right you shouldn't need anything else amputated," I said.
"I want to go home to my husband. I want to go home to my husband *a
week ago*."

"Damn it, can't you ever do anything that's *unambiguously* helpful?"

I took a moment to flip through what things I'd done impacted Leah's
life and how ambiguous their helpfulness might have seemed. Activated
her -- and her fiancé, who'd dumped her for her favorite cousin as a
result. Saved her father from the injuries she'd inflicted -- by turning
him into a vampire and sending him away from home. Delivered her baby
brother -- by turning her mother, too, when Leah found vampires
particularly unpleasant to be around. Saved her from some unknown green
fate when Cody bit her -- by removing her thumb.

So I could see why Leah might find my help a little... mixed.

But that *didn't* really explain why she wanted me to babysit.

"I do tend to leave complications in my wake," I said. "But that doesn't
make me a great choice for a nanny. Neither does the fact that I'm going
stir-crazy over my husband being on another continent."

"I'm worried Seth's going to try to pick Cody up if nobody else does,
and I don't want him getting fanged to death," Leah said. "If one of us
*does* get bitten, and our parents aren't here, and you aren't here, we
don't have a lot of really fast, clean options for getting the gangrene
off."

I threaded my fingers through my hair. This was fair. Knives existed and
werewolves were pretty fast, but there would still be a few extra
seconds of spreading venom, and some precision sacrificed if they
hurried. "Seth isn't stupid," I said.

"But he's a kid," said Leah. "Which means he sometimes acts stupider
than he is. Do you really think he's not going to try to put his old
baby clothes on Cody, even if it means putting his hands too near those
teeth?"

I could see Seth doing that. "So what you really want me to do is stop
Seth from trying to babysit Cody, rather than babysit Cody myself."

"Well, you could do it by making Seth unnecessary," Leah said.

"Leah, I want to go *home*. I want to say goodbye to my dad, buy plane
tickets, and go try to find a way to tell my husband that we can
possibly have our own baby without killing our surrogate, without
explaining about Cody in particular."

"Wait, what? You're going to do this again?"

"If the surrogate, who wants to be a vampire anyway, agrees, I'm going
to do it again, yes -- surrounded by well-equipped doctors who know
what's going on with anaesthetics all ready to go. Old, experienced
vampire doctors, who have the advance expectation of the C-section and
the knowledge that the shell's attached to the walls of the uterus and
whatnot."

"Okay..." said Leah. "So you won't help?"

"If *helping* here means spending more than another half hour or so not
taking steps to go home, and it's not a real emergency -- sorry, going to
have to say no," I said apologetically. "If *helping* means giving you a
couple hundred dollars for baby stuff, or answering a couple quick
questions about vampires or half-vampires, or killing a couple elk and
harvesting their blood for your baby brother so you don't have to more
of that for a couple days, that's fine, that's quick, but that's not
what you seem to want."

"I do have one question," Leah said.

"Shoot."

"What's... Dad wouldn't tell us anything about what turning was like.
And now Mom's in the middle of it. What's happening to her?" Leah
paused. "Do I even want to know?"

"You probably don't," I said. "It's not something you'll need to prepare
for yourself, obviously. But remember -- when it's over, it's over. In a
few days she'll be fine, it's not the same as if the same sensation were
somehow inflicted on someone who was all human throughout. Beyond
turning her into a vampire it's not that much of a life-altering
experience. In a few more days she'll be fit for mortal company -- your
dad will be able to bring Cody to see her sooner than that; he doesn't
smell like food or like a danger the way Billy or you would,
respectively."

"He does smell sort of nice," Leah agreed absently, looking at the
sleeping baby. "Like fruit, maybe."

"Well, if he smells like food to *you*, that's way less dangerous than
if he smelled like food to either of your parents," I said. "The sorts
of provocations that make a wolf go berserk aren't the same ones that
affect a young vampire."

"What's he smell like to you?" asked Leah.

"Why are you stalling me? You have, or can get, my e-mail address," I
said. "They have Internet in Norway."

Leah seemed stumped by this question. Finally, she said, "Rachel's been
the one keeping in touch with you on behalf of the whole pack."

"That doesn't mean you can't too, if you feel like it," I said,
shrugging. "I would need a lot more pen pals before e-mail would start
to take up a significant chunk of my time -- I can read a screen of text
almost instantly and type a few hundred words per minute. Although I'm
sort of puzzled about why you'd want to talk to me at all. Rachel told
me to stay far away from you because I was a "herald of all things awful
in your life", after Sam imprinted."

"That's exactly why I want to talk to you," she burst out. "After Sam
imprinted, I couldn't talk to anybody in the pack, because they were all
basically on his *side*, as if I couldn't feel what he felt about Emily
too and as if everyone else couldn't feel what *I* was going through.
Even Seth! But I could talk to Emily. But then we had *one stupid fight*
about her borrowing my *shampoo*, of all the things we could have fought
about, and she ran to Sam and we're only starting to carefully be
acquaintances and we're never going to be best friends again, ever. So I
talked to Mom, but that wasn't that great to begin with because *I* was
the reason *her* husband was gone in the first place, and then it turns
out that she's been seeing him in secret for weeks, and now they're
going to be hunky-dory forever. Who am I going to talk to? Somebody too
old to phase? Somebody who hasn't got the gene who doesn't really *get*
things even if they have them explained fifty times?"

"So... I'm outside the situation enough that you can talk to me, but
close enough to it that you don't have to keep awkward secrets or talk
across gaps of understanding?" I filled in, tilting my head.

"Yeah. It's just barely enough to make up for the stench you've got."

"I also have a phone," I said. "I presume you can't smell me through it.
But you shouldn't call it -- you won't be able to tell when I'm alone. If
you don't like e-mail, I'm willing to call you once a while to talk. But
not in the next day, which I hope to spend mostly on a series of planes,
if you don't mind. I really, *really* want to go home."

"Is it like when the guys have to go a while without their imprints?"

"Sort of," I said, "but it goes in both directions. So not only am I
standing here kind of inclined to curl up in a ball and whine because
Edward's not here, I *also* know perfectly well that *he* is in
*Scandinavia* feeling the exact same way and I don't *like* that. He
doesn't even understand *why* I had to leave him alone. He's just
trusting that it's something very important that he can't know about.
Are we done? Can I go?"

"Sure," said Leah. "Sorry."

I did not feel that I needed any further permission from Leah to leave.

Seth and I passed each other while I left his house. I asked him if he
knew where Charlie was, and he directed me to Billy's house. I walked
right in without knocking -- the door was half-open -- and announced that
I was leaving.

"So soon, Bells?" Charlie asked, while Billy looked at me with a
guarded, but not hostile, expression.

"Yes, I'd really like to get home," I replied. "I'm sure some crisis or
other will come up here that calls for my presence soon enough, and if
nothing else, now that you know what the story is I may be able to visit
just to visit -- but for shorter periods, at least until Edward gets in
on the secret one way or another and I can bring him along."

"Is that healthy, to be so... attached to him?" Charlie asked. He'd been
caught up on the fine details of vampire psychology over the previous
week, but still asked questions like that sometimes. I half expected him
to ask if I'd ever tried to stop being a vampire.

"That's not really a useful question, since the attachment's not going
away," I said, "and I wouldn't wish it away, if it could."

"Fair enough," sighed Charlie. "Keep in touch, Bells."

"I will."

I gave Billy a cordial nod, which he returned, and then went back
outdoors, where I called Edward to find out where he was. This check-in
turned, predictably enough, into a long conversation during which I ran
all the way to the airport. Once there, I booked tickets to Helsinki and
caught my plane.

* * * * *

Edward met me at the airport in Helsinki. The next six days were spent
in a lovely, if rushed, tour of Scandinavia; we hit all the major
tourist attractions and a few minor ones so I could account for having
been gone as long as I had. I learned bits and pieces of Swedish and
Finnish. I was able to go about in public without contact lenses, as my
eyes were entirely amber: an unusual color, but not one unheard of in
humans.

Edward noticed, stared at, and kissed the small bite marks on my wrist,
but didn't ask.

Our travels went in a loosely westerly direction, and finally we drove
up to our home. I wore extra-long sleeves to at least postpone the rest
of the family's discovering that I had been bitten by a small venomous
creature. There had been no good way to hide it from Edward, but nobody
else inspected me with such regularity and thoroughness.

The first thing I noticed when we approached the house was the singing.
It was Maggie, crooning something in Gaelic. She had a splendid voice; I
could understand why Alice had predicted Gianna would appreciate it.
When I got out of the car and looked, the Irish vampire -- still
gold-eyed -- was sitting on a picnic blanket with Gianna in the backyard.
The human was eating a sandwich, and looking at Maggie with considerably
less ambivalence than she'd displayed when I'd last seen them together.
The blush was still present, though. Maggie was entirely unselfconscious
(not to mention incapable of blushing), and seemed confident in her
voice and glad to be entertaining the object of her affection.

It was all so cute that I almost could have missed the patchwork of
bruises spotting Gianna's skin.

I hadn't tried to handle any humans since becoming a vampire except
Harry, who'd been starting to turn before I picked him up, and Sue, who
I'd had every intention of grievously injuring to begin with. I didn't
really know how hard it was, but it didn't seem like it could be *that*
difficult -- couldn't Maggie press too hard *once*, calibrate Gianna's
fragility, and then back off enough to avoid the injury?

It didn't look like that was what had happened. The contusions were of a
variety of ages -- some hours old, still dark, and others yellowing. I
didn't see any casts, splints, or even bandages, so the damage was
limited, but there were so *many* bruises. I hadn't gotten one from
Edward while I'd been human, that I recalled. Then again, I'd been
clumsy enough that I'd been accustomed to having a variety of small
injuries that I didn't necessarily remember getting... but I hadn't
looked like I'd been *painted*.

However, the fact that Maggie was not quite gentle enough with Gianna
didn't seem to have prevented them from growing adorably close or caused
Ilario to break Maggie into gravel, so I decided that it wasn't any of
my business. Maggie finished her song, then briefly deigned to pay
attention to Edward and me. "Welcome home!" she called to us.

"Thanks!" I called back.

That was all Maggie had in her attention span for persons not Gianna,
and she started another song. This one seemed to be in English, but it
was so archaic, heavily accented, and full of regionalisms that I could
make out about one word in three.

We checked in with the others of the family; everyone could have heard
the car pulling up and seen us out the window or heard me speak to
Maggie, but it was polite to speak face-to-face. I also had an interest
in seeing whether Jasper remained distant and cool towards me. Harry had
become less disconcerted by my unrecognizeability. I hoped that it
wouldn't cause a more lasting rift between me and Jasper.

Jasper was edgy, but not obviously upset. More tellingly, Edward seemed
calm in talking to him, so he couldn't be thinking daggers at me. Alice
complained good-naturedly that I'd gone invisible for longer than ever
while away: "More than a week! But only when you weren't with Edward,
for some reason," she said. "Maybe you're influenced enough by his
decisions that it sheds light on what you're going to do, when you're
together?"

I should have thought of that.

Alice couldn't see what *I* was doing if it involved wolves, but if she
looked for *Edward*, and we weren't together, she'd find him easily. I
could only be glad that she didn't make a habit of supervising him
twenty-four hours a day and would assume that we were together during
most unobserved hours -- she'd probably already seen a suspicious amount
of Edward all by himself wandering Scandinavia as though alone. Which he
had been.

*Damn* Harry's carelessness. He could have announced to Eleazar in
August that he wanted to move out to an unspecified location, and then
Tanya wouldn't have called Carlisle and Alice wouldn't have looked for
him. He could have *asked* someone, anyone, me or any other Cullen,
whether it was safe for him to make love to his wife as though he hadn't
just been turned into a vampire. If he'd gotten Sue pregnant anyway, I'd
still have needed to travel to help out, but I would have had better
information and timed accordingly -- once I'd had the C-section idea I
could have planned to be there for only a day or two.

Alice didn't seem suspicious, though, just gently teasing. I laughed,
made a joke about how I couldn't concentrate on keeping my shield up
nearly as well with Edward around, and excused us to our cottage.

When we got there, I said without preamble, "I think we might be able to
safely have a half-vampire baby."

* * * * *

"What? How -" Edward began, and then he shook his head. "What can you
tell me?"

I bit my lip. I *hated* not being able to tell him things. Hating that
in and of itself, when it was in my power to tell all, was dangerous. So
I hated Aro, instead. Once he was out of the picture I wouldn't need to.

I almost wished that Edward would just demand an explanation of me,
making it so hard to keep the assorted secrets that I could judge it not
worth the trouble. Or that he'd stumble across something, as Charlie
had. But if I truly wished that I might as well spill all the beans --
and that wasn't the best thing to do. I already had a little itch of
worry in the back of my mind about the danger Charlie had walked into,
although the wolves would look out for him if they could. Better not to
add a similar one about Edward.

"I had an idea," I said, which was true. "Caesarean section -- early in
the pregnancy. Gianna probably couldn't expect to live through a whole
month, but she could likely manage three weeks or so, especially if we
turned her right after. And Nahuel was a really healthy baby when he was
born. He had nobody taking care of him for three days and he was fine. A
preemie half-vampire would probably be no more vulnerable than, say, a
full-term or slightly early human baby, and would catch up quickly, as
fast as they grow."

"That sounds sensible," said Edward, lighting up.

"One thing that has me worried is all those bruises, though," I said, as
it occurred to me that they could in this sense be my business. "I'm
guessing Maggie hasn't broken any bones or anything, since Gianna wasn't
taped up that I could see, but having a lot of extra healing to do while
trying to carry a half-vampire is... I don't know how it'd interact, but
it couldn't be in a *good* way."

"I haven't been keeping up to date on that," Edward said. "But some of
the bruises did look new, so if Maggie's getting more careful, it's not
happening very fast. It's something we'd need to discuss with Gianna at
least, and Maggie too, most likely."

"She'll probably need human blood to drink during the pregnancy," I
said. "Nahuel can live on whatever if he decides to, but fetuses don't
have that kind of volition..." I went on walking him through all the
steps, including the possibility that the shell would only be vulnerable
to vampire teeth and that it could grow attached to the uterus. I didn't
pull in any evidence that I could *only* have gotten from Sue, although
some of the mental leaps were a little tenuous and I had to frame
everything with uncertainty. It wasn't obvious if Edward connected the
dots (the blinking neon dots labeled "connect me!"), but he didn't
mention it if he did.

Night fell, and Gianna was presumably asleep, so we put off bringing the
subject up with her until the next morning.

Expectations
============

Maggie proved very displeased by the idea.

"Let me get this straight," she said indignantly, after we failed to get
Gianna alone and explained to both of them at once instead. "*Bella*
said something dumb to Aro under pressure, which means *Gianna's* in
danger if she doesn't have *Bella's* kid. Nowhere in this does it say
that the kid has to be *Edward's* too. Not if that's going to hurt my
Gianna."

"Maggie," said Gianna, "they think I'll be safe -- and it means I'll turn
sooner, too..."

Maggie softened at once when Gianna spoke, turning to the Italian woman
and carefully taking one of her hands. "Baby, I want that over with soon
too, but you might not make it that far!" she said. "Nobody has before!
This is an *experiment* they want to try. You're not a guinea pig,
baby."

"I said I would help," Gianna murmured.

"You didn't know when you said so that they'd ask you *this*! Enough
people die having normal babies -- *my* own mother did."

"I'm sorry to hear that, but that was more than a hundred and fifty
years ago," I said. "Carlisle, Edward, and Rosalie are all doctors. We
can have all the advance notice we could possibly need. Every advantage
that Nahuel's mother didn't have -- or yours, for that matter. If things
take a turn for the worse before the three-week mark we can do the
C-section earlier than planned."

"I'm getting Ilario, he'll back me up," said Maggie fiercely, patting
Gianna's cheek once and then rushing out of the house to look for him.

"I take it they're getting along, then?" Edward asked mildly.

"He'll leave me alone with her as of last week," Gianna said.

"And that hasn't changed since you're... kind of black and blue?" I
asked. "It's not really my business, I'm sure if there were something
seriously wrong it would have been noticed and addressed before now by
Ilario if nobody else -- although if I'm wrong please tell me. But if
you're getting hurt often it would probably make a pregnancy, any
pregnancy, riskier."

"Actually," Gianna said, "Ilario was the first one to give me a bruise.
He was upset about something Maggie said. I don't remember exactly what
it was, but he grabbed my hand and pulled me away from her. She didn't
try to play tug of war or anything. He just squeezed too hard. And then
she fussed over me so much that he decided she's no more likely to hurt
me than he is. So he thought it would be hypocritical of him to keep
spending time around me himself without letting Maggie do it. She's
always more upset than I am when I get hurt, anyway."

"Still, there are a *lot*..." I mused.

Gianna shrugged, looking down and blushing again. "She gets carried
away, but she stops whatever she's doing right away when I say "ow". The
first time it happened she offered to quit touching me at all so she
wouldn't get carried away anymore, but... I said she didn't have to do
that." She squirmed slightly.

"Right, um," I said, having wandered into territory that was even less
my business. If Gianna was covering up something serious, Edward would
know about it and tell me, and he was silent. "She's obviously very
concerned with your safety, so that might wind up being what happens
anyway for a few weeks -- or months if we have to go the human baby
route."

"I could mention that to her," Gianna said lightly.

"Might help," I allowed.

I heard Maggie and Ilario's footfalls as they approached us. A few
seconds later, they were there, Maggie promptly sitting back next to
Gianna and carefully putting an arm over her shoulders while Ilario
stood.

"Let me get this straight," Ilario said, and there ensued a conversation
very similar to the one we'd had with Maggie, minus the part where
Gianna was addressed as "baby" and the part where someone's mother had
died in childbirth.

"I understand you're both worried about me," Gianna said when this
segment of the exchange wound down, "but isn't it my decision?"

Maggie bit her lip. "Baby, you don't know what it'd do to me if you
died. I don't think even I know what it'd do to me, and I already can't
stand to think of it. I know it's up to you, but it affects more than
just you."

Gianna patted Maggie's knee. "But I think it sounds survivable. Also, it
gives more of an explanation for why I'm going to be turned. The Cullens
have a history of turning dying people -- but not people who've just
given birth to a human baby once and are fine."

"Aren't I sufficient explanation?" protested Maggie. "Bella wasn't
dying, she was just Edward's."

I said, "That'd be sufficient explanation if *you* had run into her all
by herself a year or two ago before she met the Volturi. Now, they think
she belongs to me, so *I* need a credible reason to turn her. If simply
thinking that people ought to be vampires instead of humans when they're
willing were a reason the Volturi would accept, I could have just said
that in Volterra."

"You should've let me fight you for her," Maggie said. "That would be
credible."

"I don't think it would have helped the situation at all if Aro found
that I'd put her up as stakes on a fight," I said dryly, "since you
challenged me on my home turf while you were alone and I had my whole
coven present, and clearly didn't have to wager her -- or lose."

"Oh," said Maggie, hanging her head.

"Maggie," I said. "I have every confidence that Gianna will be okay as
long as we do a C-section at or before the three week mark, then turn
her."

The Irish vampire looked up at me. "You really do believe that," she
murmured.

I debated whether to tell her that I was immune to her power. I decided
that she'd find out sooner or later, or at least suspect it -- and it'd
be a show of good faith. "I actually think I'm immune to your power," I
told her sheepishly. She frowned. "Edward, you tell her," I said.

"I think Bella's right," he said confidently. Maggie scrutinized his
face -- I wasn't sure if this was habit, an actual way to focus her
witchcraft, or just for effect.

Maggie looked over at Gianna. "You're sure you want to do it this way,
Gianna?" she asked softly.

Gianna nodded, then glanced at her brother, who looked uncomfortable but
didn't speak.

Maggie looked at Edward and me, fixing us with fierce glares. "If she
dies," she said in a flat, cold voice very unlike her usual demeanor.
She didn't finish the sentence, letting the threat trail off into
thought.

"If you tried, no matter how justified you were, you'd die too," Edward
said softly.

"If she dies," Maggie said, "then I wouldn't care if I did."

* * * * *

Permission secured, it was time to deal with the the complicated
technical stuff. I wasn't deeply involved in this part. I had no
relevant expertise and my biological contribution was already in a
freezer. It was mostly Edward, Rosalie, and Carlisle, ordering assorted
equipment which trickled into the house in boxes over the next few days
and then beginning work.

Meanwhile, Maggie redoubled her efforts to leave Gianna undamaged, and
the bruises slowly faded. The attempt wasn't without its mistakes, but
Gianna could have picked up the same level of injury by bumping into
things all by herself, and was disinclined to adopt a hands-off policy
with Maggie. I didn't want to risk re-igniting Maggie's opposition to
the plan by requiring more of a sacrifice from her.

Edward kept me in the loop on the general shape of the process. Rosalie
had taken far more eggs from me than were normally removed in a
harvesting procedure, since I'd had no expectation of needing them in
their original state. As a result, they had some leeway with the raw
materials, and were creating several embryos, most of which would go
right back in the freezer to be used later in case we found a second
surrogate and wanted a second child. This also meant that we had an
opportunity to pick the gender we preferred.

"Well," I said when presented with this, "if there's a bunch to choose
from, why stop at gender? Let's get Alice and have her look them over,
and tell us about them in detail."

So we found Alice, who pranced into the room, closed her eyes to
concentrate, and promptly said, "Ow!"

"What's wrong?" asked Jasper, who'd followed close at her heels. Edward,
who didn't need to ask, groaned.

"They take after you, Bella," laughed Alice weakly.

"You can't see them?" I asked. "That doesn't make sense. You could see
me perfectly when I was human; they shouldn't have inherited that
immunity if they inherited any of it at all."

"Not a thing," Alice said. "I can't even tell which are the girls and
which are the boys. I'm sorry, I wish I could help."

"Can you see around them?" asked Edward. "If we decide on one can you
look ahead a few months and see *us*...?"

Alice tried, but then winced. "Nothing that depends on them, either. Oh,
boy, this is going to be fun."

I sucked in a nervous breath. "I guess we're flying blind, then -- or
rather, with what we can find from the genes alone. That's gender and
what else?"

"Carlisle's already looked at one of them, but while he's fairly
confident that that one was a female, she had twenty-four pairs of
chromosomes -- which means anything known about human genes could be
completely off-base," Edward said.

"Humans have twenty-three, right?" I asked, and he nodded. "Has Carlisle
ever taken a vampire cell apart and looked at it?"

"We've got twenty-five pairs," Edward said. "So it makes a bizarre kind
of sense. Anyway, Carlisle could *guess* what the other genes on the
embryos' chromosomes might mean, but it would be just that -- guesswork."

"I guess it's still more choice than most parents get," I sighed. Alice
and Jasper left the room, the former rubbing her temple. Jasper threw a
suspicious look at me over his shoulder. We'd avoided crossing paths
very much since I'd added his witchcraft to those I blocked. There
hadn't been another dramatic confrontation, but when we did pass each
other in a hallway or have reason to exchange information, he was
definitely less friendly and more willing to assume that I was acting in
bad faith.

Edward frowned at his departing brother but didn't comment on that
subject. "Indeed," he said instead, turning back to me and taking my
hands in his. "So, my love -- son or daughter?"

"Do you have a preference?" I asked, and he shook his head. "I suppose
the evidence we have available suggests that a girl will probably not be
venomous," I said. "That seems like a plus." I supposed I could have
covered for my existing bite mark by having a son and plausibly being
bitten once thereby, but I wasn't confident I could manage the
concealment for that long anyway. Emmett would be suspicious if I
suddenly lost interest in sparring, and that would inevitably push my
sleeve up my arm unless I made obvious and equally peculiar efforts to
prevent it. I really needed to figure out how to explain it. Ran into an
immortal child in Sweden while not with Edward? But then what would I
have done with it after receiving the bite? Found some baby brother of
Nahuel's in Finland someplace, whose mother swore me to secrecy? That
could work. Got into a fight with a vampire midget?

"True," he said, fortunately and maddeningly oblivious to my thought
process as always. "So, a daughter, then?"

I nodded slowly. Everything was coming together very fast, and while it
was still necessary and I still liked the idea, it was also
intimidating. Picking a gender was much more emotionally *real* to me
than being vaguely aware that strange pieces of medical equipment were
being carried into the house. "I guess we should start thinking about
names," I said, "since we won't have as long as human parents to think
of them."

We left the room where the embryos that included our future daughter
rested, walking together out of the house and into the yard. "I don't
know anything about your opinions of baby names," Edward said.

"Likewise," I replied. "I feel like we should -- one way or another --
name her after somebody. I'm a little concerned that as the only
half-vampire in a large coven of vampires she'll be... disconnected,
somehow. A meaningful name might help her feel grounded. I'm making this
up completely, of course; my parents picked my name out of a baby book
because it sounded pretty and I haven't felt particularly un-grounded."

"It's still a place to start," Edward said. "I was named after my
father. I don't remember a lot about him, but I have his name, which is
something."

"I didn't know that," I said. "Okay, what was your mother's name?"

"Elizabeth," supplied Edward. "Actually, I think Isabella is a variant
on the name Elizabeth, too, but the source I heard that from might not
be reliable."

"So maybe another Elizabeth variation," I said. "Especially if that
turns out to be right." I ran through the other names we might want to
incorporate into our daughter's. "You know," I said, "it really *seems*
like there should be a way to portmanteau 'Renée' and 'Esme'. The vowels
are so similar. But there's just no way to put them together in a way
that sounds like a name and not a Pokémon."

Edward laughed. "I think it would mean a lot to Rosalie if her name were
wedged in there somewhere. A middle name would do," he suggested.

"I think it'd also make sense to honor Gianna. She's helping us out in a
*really* major way. 'Annarose' for a middle name?"

"That's perfect."

We went to our cottage, and I pulled out my laptop and looked up names
derived from 'Elizabeth' on the Internet. There were a *lot*, including,
as Edward had said, 'Isabella'. I pruned out those that were just
different spellings of the base name or my own version, and the obvious
nicknames like 'Liz' that our daughter could plausibly choose to go by
no matter what variant we landed on.

"Look," I said, smirking. "*Buffy* is a nickname for Elizabeth."

"I think we should rule that one out," Edward said seriously. "It could
prompt the wrong sorts of guesses if people notice anything different
about her."

I nodded, deleted it from the list of possibilities, and then started
removing other names for increasingly minor reasons, mostly aesthetic. I
removed 'Libby' and its near cousins, which I sort of liked, at Edward's
direction; he'd known someone who went by that name and had found her an
unpleasant person. After a while, we had a short list: 'Babette',
'Bettina' and a few similar names, 'Elspeth', 'Ilsa', 'Lisel' and other
spellings thereof, and 'Lilibeth'.

"I'm tempted by Lisel," I said, "but I think I like Elspeth better. It's
uncommon without being unpronounceable, nor so novel that it risks
sounding much more out of place after a hundred years than it does now."

"Elspeth Annarose it is," said Edward.

* * * * *

Carlisle picked out a female embryo for us, and Rosalie did the honors
of actually implanting it. The others were frozen. We were warned ahead
of time that the rates of pregnancy for in vitro techniques were low,
but the following day Gianna was absolutely certain that the first try
had taken, and she made herself a large plate of eggs for breakfast.
Puking began shortly afterwards.

Maggie insisted that Gianna shouldn't have to cook for herself in her
condition, bought a large stack of cookbooks so she could make Gianna's
food herself, and burned a few omelettes trying to get them right. At
that point Ilario took over, rolling his eyes at Maggie as he expertly
poached a new batch of eggs; he actually knew how to cook, having done
some of it in his human days, and kept his sister supplied with whatever
she wanted for her solid food while she ineffectively protested that she
wasn't *that* impaired.

There was plenty of human blood in the fridge that Carlisle had
purchased, too, which Gianna drank out of opaque cups with lids so she
didn't have to think about it too hard. Carlisle, who was taking a lot
of time off work and pretending that he was looking after a sick Esme to
excuse it, fetched her these beverages and did the dishes. Maggie,
Ilario, Jasper, and myself left the house for safety reasons while the
scent of blood was in the air, and everyone else at least gave a wide
berth.

I e-mailed Charlie and told him the whole story; Rachel got the truth
too. I told Renée that *I* was pregnant (as of early July, moreover); I
planned to take an inordinate number of baby pictures and dole them out
to her at a rate that would make Elspeth appear to age normally.

After I'd reminded the wolves of my existence with this e-mail, Leah
sent a conversational sort of note, sounding me out for ongoing
correspondence. She was an irregular pen pal and had poor spelling, but
I wrote her anyway, telling her what had my attention in a newsy sort of
way and making polite inquiries about her. I was informed that Sue's
turning, adjustment period, and assumption of her share of the duties of
infant care had gone without significant hiccup. Cody was growing as
fast as expected and was already talking in complete sentences (his
first words had been "Seth, can I have a wolf ride?", which request Seth
had obliged). Relations between halves of the pack were cordial, but
sadly distant.

Gianna did not lack for attention during the ensuing weeks. Maggie
fussed over her, obsessed; she rearranged her hair several times a day
for lack of much else helpful to do, and sang constantly. Ilario mostly
stood in the corner of Gianna's room, looking stoic, when he wasn't
cooking something. Edward and I, plus Rosalie, were mostly interested
for Elspeth's sake rather than in Gianna herself, who didn't lack for
caretakers anyway. This still had us hovering around the bed where she
spent most of her time resting, trying to make sure she had everything
she needed.

The one problem it turned out we were least prepared to handle was
Gianna's fluctuating temperature. It had never occurred to me to read
anything into it when Sue instructed her children to hug her; now I
wondered if she'd been using them as sources of warmth. When Gianna felt
too warm -- which did happen, although less often -- Maggie could snuggle
up to her and that worked fine. When she was cold, though, turning up
the heater or giving her blankets worked too slowly for comfort.
Electric blankets were purchased, but Gianna seemed to find them vaguely
unsatisfying. Eventually we settled for keeping the house warmer all the
time, and Maggie's cuddling efforts were called on more frequently.

All told, Gianna held up better under Elspeth than Sue had under Cody.
Probably, this was because twenty-three was a more convenient age at
which to be violently pregnant than forty-two. In spite of that
favorable comparison, and Gianna's better care, Elspeth started doing
damage a couple of weeks in. Several ribs were casualties, and Gianna
went on painkillers -- taping them up, I learned, was not actually a
treatment for them, which made me feel better about Sue's neglected
fractures. Gianna did not lose consciousness except when properly
sleeping.

Without giving this comparison away, though, I could only do so much to
soothe Maggie and Ilario. Both were in states of constant worry by the
end of the first week and wanted Elspeth's birthday to be as early as
possible. They were agreed that far, but could not so readily come to an
agreement on who was to turn her, each preferring to do that task
themselves.

Gianna was prevailed upon to settle their argument -- which consisted
mostly of Maggie gesturing wildly and ranting (half in Gaelic) while
Ilario regarded her impassively and occasionally uttered a monosyllabic
denial. It was an odd role for Gianna to have fallen into, since she
hated confrontation and would obviously have rathered it if Maggie and
Ilario invariably agreed on everything. Still, she ultimately came up
with a compromise they both accepted -- Ilario would administer the
venom, but it would be Maggie's.

We planned to deliver Elspeth on October twenty-first, if nothing
required us to operate earlier. It was exactly three weeks after the
implantation date, when I knew and everyone else suspected that this
would be safe enough for Gianna and Elspeth both. I suggested the
tooth-ripping-out plan so no one had to risk tasting Gianna's blood, and
volunteered a canine of my own which Edward could use to open the shell.
He was leery of trying to do delicate surgery while distracted by my
discomfort, though, and Rosalie readily offered to loan a tooth in my
place. My role would instead be to lift Elspeth out.

On October thirteenth, Edward remarked that my birthday had been a month
prior, and I hadn't mentioned anything about it. He asked if I was just
not counting birthdays anymore. I'd been in La Push on the thirteenth of
September -- but in all the excitement even Charlie had forgotten the
significance of the day, and he (and my permanently scatterbrained
mother) had both sent me belated e-mails of well wishes. I'd noted the
date when it had passed, but not seen fit to announce it to anyone.
"What's the point of counting them?" I said. "So I'm chronologically
eighteen now -- but I'm going to be physically seventeen for all time,
and I'll use mostly forged documents to demonstrate my legal status
anyway, and I no longer find birthday cake appetizing."

"That was my guess," he said. "No presents, either?"

"You can get me presents if you want, but there's no need to use my
birthday as an excuse," I replied. I smiled. "Or as a restriction."

"So acknowledged," he laughed. "I've been thinking we'll need to
celebrate birthdays and half-birthdays for Elspeth, while she's growing
still -- it still won't be as many as most people get, over the course of
a childhood, but..."

I nodded. Elspeth had become the primary topic of conversation between
Edward and I; soon we would be parents. If everything went according to
plan.

In the next room over, Gianna failed to keep her juice down.

* * * * *

A little over a week before Elspeth's artificial due date, Tanya called
Carlisle again.

I wasn't near enough to hear the call on this occasion -- I was with
Edward in our cottage -- but the subsequent morning I heard the news.
Laurent had been gone for seventeen days -- more than double his previous
record excursion length. He wasn't answering his phone, hadn't been for
the past week, hadn't called to check in with Irina once in that time.
While the very fact that he didn't bring Irina on his trips meant that
he didn't want to be witnessed partaking of his unethical food, or doing
whatever else it was that made him take so long, she was out of her mind
with worry and wanted to prevail on Alice again.

When Carlisle had passed on the message, though, Alice had come up
completely blank.

"No," she said when I asked her about it, "not like you -- it's subtly
different."

"What are the different kinds of blank you can get?" I asked.

"There's four," Alice said. "There's you, there's Elspeth, there's
Gianna-while-pregnant-with-Elspeth, and there's Laurent -- all different.
Your future looks like Swiss cheese. Sometimes it veers off into patches
I can see, sometimes when you're in the middle of a hole I can't see
anything about you, but a lot of your futures are normally visible.
Elspeth *per se* is just not there. I can't see her at all and that
casts shadows on everything she affects, so I can only see the big
obvious regularities that she can't change. Gianna's mostly in a shadow
like that, but I can see around Elspeth in a limited way and get
possible futures of Gianna's that don't directly involve Elspeth. But it
gives me a killer headache to try, so I've been doing it only when
Maggie or Ilario badgers me into checking that I can still see Gianna
alive in some futures. And Laurent is..." Alice bit her lip. "He's not
there to see. It's not like trying to look for someone invisible like
Elspeth, because he doesn't cast any shadows. It's like trying to look
for a person who doesn't exist in the first place. I think he's dead."

Irina had heard this suspicion before I had, of course -- "How's Irina
taken it?" I asked Alice quietly.

The little vampire shook her head. "I can't even imagine what she's
going through. She's insane with grief, of course, but she's still got a
sliver of hope that Laurent isn't really dead and something else is
interfering with my vision. She does have a point that a lot of things
seem to be foiling me lately."

"Have you tried looking for people who turned out to be dead before?" I
asked.

"Several times," Alice replied. "They *were* all humans, though, so...
But I still think that Laurent's somehow died."

"What exactly does it take to kill a vampire?" I asked, pacing. "Is it
the sort of thing that could remotely happen by accident?"

"Not likely," said Alice. "Possible, but not at *all* likely -- he'd have
to be caught in a very serious explosion, to be unable to escape or put
himself back together."

"Has anything like that happened in a plausible radius of Denali?"

"He's been gone long enough that 'plausible radius' means "anywhere on
the globe"," Alice pointed out. "If he was in Gaza and got in the way of
a missile, or near that volcano in El Salvador, for instance, and he
wasn't paying enough attention to get to safety, he could have been
killed that way. Or taken apart thoroughly enough that he's still
incapacitated, but then I'd expect to see him put back together and
going home."

"But you don't think that's what happened."

Alice shook her head. "It's way more likely that he got into a fight
with another vampire, and lost. I've never heard of any vampire dying in
a natural disaster, I just know it's theoretically possible."

"How densely populated by vampires is North America?" I asked. "I
realize he could have gone anywhere, but at least we know he started in
Alaska."

"Mmm... since the Volturi cleaned out the newborn armies in the South,
not all *that* densely, but you can definitely find us in population
centers and roaming around."

"Ballpark population on the continent?"

Alice thought. "More than a hundred, fewer than a thousand, if I had to
narrow it down I'd say something like three or four hundred. Mostly in
big population centers, because you need more territory to be
inconspicuous if the area's rural."

"How territorial and inclined to fight are average vampires?" I asked.
"I've only met the Volturi, friends of the family, and Huilen, who was
alone when Edward and I showed up. Plus Laurent's old coven, but I was
human then, and don't remember them too well."

"Laurent's old coven is the closest to normal you've met, considering
that Huilen's in contact with her nephew..." Alice trailed off, closed
her eyes, and then opened them with a small gasp. "Oh, how strange," she
exclaimed. "Elspeth doesn't take after you -- or perhaps she does, but
that isn't why I can't see her. I can't see Nahuel either, any more than
I can see Elspeth."

My eyes flew open very wide. "It's a species thing."

She nodded emphatically. "I can see Huilen... but only about as much as
I can see you. It's Swiss cheese. Huh, I wonder why your immunity works
that way."

*Because I'm only invisible to you when I'm being acted on by another
invisible species.* "Maybe only a bit of my brain has the hang of being
invisible and you see me when other bits are in charge," I said,
affecting uncuriosity with a shrug.

Alice frowned, her brow furrowed. But she didn't pursue that topic.
"Anyway, your standard vampire wanders around -- or lurks in a big city
where a lot of people can go missing without it being big news. Eats
every three, four days, one or two people at a time, or lies low for as
long as a couple of weeks if one of their meals gets too much attention.
They usually steal stuff; maintaining legitimate funds is too much of a
hassle under those limitations. About a third of them travel alone,
another third in mated pairs, last third in covens of two or three,
rarely four or more, which may or may not include mates."

"Doesn't quite answer my question," I said.

"Lone vampires are more likely to avoid confrontations," Alice said.
"But if we assume Laurent was alone too, he'd run some risk of provoking
one if they just didn't like the look of him or felt like getting into a
fight... some think of combat, even lethal combat, as recreational.
Pairs and covens will stake out territories and are pretty likely to
attack anyone who won't clear off when told to. Less likely to attack an
individual for fun, though, because without the individual being a
witch, the odds are in the group's favor to the point of being
unsporting. And I don't understand why Laurent wouldn't just get out of
other vampires' way if he ran afoul of one -- but I'm not sure why he'd
have to leave home for so long to begin with anyway."

"He was eating people," I reminded her. That information had filtered
through to everyone in the family.

"Even so. Denali's remote, but it's not *that* remote," mused Alice.
"I'm sure he could get to enough potential feeding grounds that there'd
be no reason for him to spend more than twenty-four hours round trip
each time."

"He might have eaten a few people each time he went out, and needed to
spread it out," I said, and with a sinking feeling it occurred to me
that there was one exceptionally dangerous location that was a
twenty-four hour round trip from Denali.

But if Laurent had gone *there*, he wouldn't have made the return
journey.

"Bah," said Alice. "You wandered into one of the holes in the cheese
that is your future again."

"Huh," I said, feigning surprise. "Anyway, I guess there's no way to
find out what happened to Laurent, is there?"

"Not really," Alice said regretfully. "I see the future, not the past."

I patted her shoulder, pursing my lips sympathetically, and excused
myself.

I had an awkward question for Rachel.

* * * * *

Rachel was actually not *sure* if wolves had killed Laurent.

*I know it wasn't anyone in my pack,* she wrote back. *I checked. But
things are rocky enough between me and Becky that I haven't communicated
with her much -- mostly about practical things like who's on duty doing
lookout where so the packs don't have to run into each other. We've been
tending to fight, which really sucks. Turns out the non-alphas can move
between packs however they want, and she's collecting the hardcore
anti-vampire wolves and they're just barely not going after Harry and
Sue and Cody. If you know where he would have been I can tell you if my
guys were there then.*

But I didn't know -- it was only a wild guess. *Can you ask her
directly?* I wrote back, and attached a description of Laurent.

She didn't get back to me for two days after that, and I occupied my
free time hovering near Gianna, discussing parenting with Edward, and
wondering what I would even *do* if I learned that Becky's pack had
killed Laurent.

I still didn't have the answer to that question when I got Rachel's
reply. *Promise me you won't hurt my sister for killing your friend,*
was all she wrote.

*He wasn't my friend,* I wrote back. *If he was near you guys, he was
probably going to kill somebody in La Push or Forks, maybe even Charlie
-- I just wish they'd been able to capture him instead of killing,
because if Irina ever finds out, then there's a potential small war on
your hands.* I explained the relationship between Irina and Laurent and
the reason the other Denalis had tolerated his lifestyle. *If Irina
figures out what happened to her Laurent...*

I didn't really know Irina well. The only vampire I'd ever met in my
life who'd lost a mate was Marcus, who I had never seen utter a word or
do anything but wander around, touch Aro's hand, and stare into space. I
didn't know how long ago his mate had died, or what he'd done when the
grief had been fresh. The next most available source of information I
had was to imagine Edward dead.

Every fragment of my self refused to let me imagine this in any detail.
It was the only intolerable concept in the world. I could imagine being
flung back into the agony I'd felt when turning, though it had been
incomprehsibly torturous. I could imagine my own death, though I loved
life and hoped to cling to it for all time. I could imagine Gianna
miscarrying, little Elspeth failing to survive, though I felt more
attached to my daughter-to-be with every passing hour.

But Edward *had* to exist, or something was fundamentally wrong with the
universe.

Filled with unreasonable panic, I restored the original names in my
mental scenario and gradually forced my rebellious mind to calm. If
*Irina* found out who had killed *Laurent*. That was the hypothetical at
hand. *My* husband was safe, *my* mate had not been killed by a pack of
anti-vampire wolves, *my Edward* was mine for all eternity.

I wrote, *If Irina figures out what happened to her Laurent, she will
kill whoever killed him or die trying. The rest of her coven might help
her.*

I sent the e-mail, and I went to soothe the ruffles in my thoughts by
finding Edward.

* * * * *

"What happened to Marcus's mate?" I asked Edward, some time later.

"Didyme? She died," Edward replied. "Less than a year after Aro turned
her -- Marcus met her right after she became a vampire. Marcus wasn't
with her at the time of her death, so he didn't see the specifics, but
Aro found the coven of vampires who'd killed her, and he and Marcus
destroyed them together. She was Aro's sister," Edward added, as an
afterthought.

"Aro seems to have borne up under the loss a lot better than Marcus," I
observed.

Edward nodded. "I've never heard Aro thinking about Didyme at all.
Marcus thinks of almost nothing else, so I picked it all up from him.
Aro did love her, but... it's not the same. It's like Ilario and Gianna,
as opposed to Maggie and Gianna. Ilario is her brother, and that's a
very human sort of relationship. He loves her, he'll do everything in
his power to protect her, but he could eventually move on if she died.
Maggie's in a different position."

"Irina must be going through hell," I said, pulling Edward a little
closer. *Mine, mine, mine -* I knew my brain was being taken over by
spooky mate bond magic. I'd signed up for exactly that when I'd said I
was ready to turn. And if I hadn't, then I would have eventually died of
the disease of mortality, and then Edward would have lost me, and then
*he* would have gone through hell and I would be dead and have no
Edward, and that would not be satisfactory at all. Much better for us to
be both immortal and together. Albeit a little nerve-wracking when I
considered the chinks in our undeath.

"She's still not convinced that Laurent is dead," he said, stroking my
hair. "She has some hope."

"How long can she go on hoping that? If he doesn't come home, and
doesn't come home, and goes on not coming home..."

"Not forever," admitted Edward. "Maybe longer than you'd think, though."

Because anything, even throwing oneself into an increasingly crumbly and
obvious lie, would feel better than that sickening black hole of grief
that I could not bear to contemplate. But Irina was *living* it.
Whatever she *thought*, her worst nightmare -- or close enough as to make
no difference -- was reality. I was concealing that all-important
information from her.

Because if I didn't, she'd die and might take a wolf or two with her.

*Would* Irina rather die, if she found out what had happened to Laurent?
Probably she'd rather kill Becky's entire pack first -- maybe Rachel's
too, maybe the whole Quileute tribe, who knew how widely she'd assign
the blame -- but after. If she wreaked all the vengeance she wanted,
somehow picked off wolves one at a time until they were gone without
losing her own life, what would she want to happen next?

I was sure I knew the corresponding answer for Edward. I'd been able to
figure that much out even before I'd turned. He had the tragic
self-sacrificing streak; he wouldn't want to live in a world that didn't
contain me. Irina, though, I wasn't sure. Would she consider her life
worth living anymore? Could she even consider the question?

I wondered suddenly what would happen to wolves whose imprints died.
Their human, *mortal* imprints, afforded no special lifespan or unusual
resilience. Maybe that was why the tribe didn't contain any
hundred-year-old holdovers from the last pack; maybe they'd all
imprinted and quit their anti-aging regimen of periodically turning into
giant wolves, so they wouldn't have to outlive their loves by long. When
little Claire caught up to Quil, would he abandon his other form,
turning physically thirty and forty and fifty with her, so he wouldn't
have to be young while she was old, alive while she was dead? Was Jared
already trying to get himself under control so his age-matched
girlfriend wouldn't rush by him?

How could I make sure that this disaster never, *ever* befell *me*?

I decided that I was not going to continue flying off to La Push
whenever there was a hiccup with the pack. Rachel was a smart cookie and
could handle her stuff, with long-distance consultation and funding
handled via the Internet. I didn't need to be physically present,
especially not with Harry and Sue and Cody nearby to be resident venom
sources if they wanted someone turned. (Rachel had mentioned, in a
pre-Laurent-revelation e-mail, that in order to keep the peace with
Becky's pack, Harry and Sue and Cody were living in the shack full-time.
Harry was fixing the place up to be a fit home. Leah and Seth still
lived in the family's house on the reservation. But they were still
within spitting distance.)

But simply being *present* wasn't necessarily enough to fend off the
specter threatening my peace of mind. I would need to be present and
*effective*. I had some advantages against some of the foes I might have
to face eventually. But these were known to those very foes, and if I
were the only one left standing while Alec caused my family to fall
senselessly to the ground around me, then I'd just be one vampire, not
very good at fighting, to be targeted separately by some non-mental
attack while my helpless brothers and sisters and in-laws and *Edward*
were unable to defend me.

And then they -- *he* -- could be destroyed. That hurt. It hurt to think
about it so much that I wanted to think about anything else, or not to
think at all -- just to snuggle closer to my gloriously alive Edward and
pretend that our "immortality" was *invulnerability*. But it *wasn't*.
Neglecting that fact wouldn't make it less factual. Edward *could* be
taken from me. I *couldn't* defend him against every threat the world
might throw at us.

Not okay.

I wondered about the limits of my shield. What might I eventually be
able to add to it? Becoming immune to Jasper had been *easy*. I'd
practically just repeated a mantra to myself. The first mantra I'd even
tried. Was that a coincidence, just a feature of Jasper's power existing
close to the line between what I did and didn't block? Or was my
witchcraft very extensible?

Just how much could I immunize myself to, if I tried?

There was probably some limit, and I'd need to be able to cover for that
with some competence in physical combat. I'd avoided sparring since
getting my scar. I didn't have any clothes that I normally wore which
could cover my wrist in even the most casual mock fight -- sleeves were
mobile sorts of things. I still didn't have a *good* story to explain
it. But it was possible that Elspeth would be venomous, and then I could
claim she bit me. The sample of half-vampires numbered five, so far --
four of whom were half-siblings. It wasn't guaranteed that my daughter
would be like the other female hybrids before her.

In less than a week, I'd find out if that was a viable cover story.
Until then I wore long sleeves when around anyone other than Edward.

And then I'd have *motherhood* to take up a huge chunk of my time.

At least Elspeth would sleep nights.

* * * * *

The sheer ferventness Maggie applied to her anxious writhing over
Gianna's condition was impressive. It made Elspeth's birth nearly
anticlimactic. While Maggie held her breath and Gianna's hand, and
Ilario fidgeted nearby, Carlisle administered some heavy-duty
anaesthesia and a sedative. Edward cut down to the shell; Rosalie handed
over a tooth and he cut through the shell with that and gave it back to
her. While she rinsed the blood off it and let it re-adhere to her
mouth, I pried the shell open, and there was Elspeth.

My baby.

I grinned from ear to ear and thrust my hands into the liquid to
retrieve her. She opened her mouth, and I had a sudden idea -- I leaned
my arm in such a way as to present the inside of my left wrist for
biting, and obligingly, she fastened her teeth onto the correct
location. She wasn't venomous, but the fluid my arm was immersed in was
*like* venom -- it could explain the scar, and I didn't expect anyone to
experiment with the stuff to check my story. "Ow," I muttered as I
picked her up, because she *did* break my skin. But I felt the wound
healing smooth, and she apparently didn't think I tasted good, because
she didn't bite me again when I cradled her close. Carlisle handed me a
blanket and patted me on the back, and I wrapped her up.

Gianna had held up so well through the procedure that Carlisle was able
to put her in a coma before Ilario administered Maggie's venom. Maggie's
release of tension was palpable -- Gianna was out of the woods, and after
some unconsciousness and some mindboggling torment, she would be fine.
Unbreathing, Maggie assumed a protective position, holding her turning
mate like she was made of glass. Ilario discarded the syringes and
started pacing while Carlisle cleaned up the blood.

And I was a mother.

Elspeth had my eyes. Not my amber vampire eyes, gradually lightening
with every meal I had -- the brown ones I'd sported when human. The shade
exactly matched the photographs I had from my first seventeen years.

This didn't escape Edward's notice. As we left the room where Gianna
lay, he remarked on it. "I admit I missed your eyes," he said. "I'm glad
they weren't lost completely."

"She has your hair, though," I told him, once we'd gotten far enough
away. She did: the same bronze-red-brown. Just a little fuzz of it. A
question occurred to me while I stared raptly at our daughter. "Can you
hear anything from her?"

"Not yet. I've never been able to hear a baby less than two months old,
and usually it takes six -- I'm sure she'll be far faster than that,
unless she's got her mother's brain, too," he said wryly.

"The bit where Alice couldn't see her turned out to be a fluke," I said.
I touched Elspeth's nose and she expelled a small puff of air with a
*pah* sound.

"But as you pointed out, that wasn't something you had while human," he
replied, grinning involuntarily at the baby.

I nodded. "Oh," I said, when we were out of earshot of the main house,
"if anybody asks..." I shifted Elspeth in my arms and pointed at the
torn sleeve that revealed part of the scar on my wrist. "I got this when
Elspeth bit me. She's not venomous but the amniotic fluid was close
enough."

"Understood," he said. "If Maggie asks?"

I considered what he could say to her. "I don't know the really fine
points of what she'll notice and what she won't. Can you just say,
"Elspeth bit her"? She *did*, after all."

"Not in response to a direct question about your scar," he said, "not
when I know the scar predates Elspeth. The statement has to be something
I believe to be true in context, not just in isolation."

I exhaled a breath through my teeth, petting Elspeth's hair as I did so.
She was very warm. "She'll never buy that you don't know where it's
from. Ugh. If Maggie asks you... *a baby half-vampire* bit me. I trust
she can be allowed to extrapolate incorrectly."

Edward's eyes widened, but he nodded. "Can I hold her?" he asked after a
moment. I handed Elspeth over, missing the heat and the vital thrum of
her heart immediately.

The look on Edward's face was indescribably paternal as he cradled our
child. "She's perfect," he murmured.

"I know," I said, gloatingly.

"Oooh," said Elspeth, with an uncannily toothy smile for a newborn
infant, and we arrived at our fairytale home in the woods to try to
interest her in non-blood comestibles.

Little Witch
============

I read Elspeth's mind before Edward did.

This was mostly a coincidence: he was on an errand in town with Jasper
at the time, out of range. They were trying to find a purveyor of forged
documents so that Elspeth could be freely moved about the globe. Edward
had to be along to help find such a person -- existing contacts in Norway
were thin on the ground. Jasper was there because his preferred method
of handling such business relationships involved the application of
artificial fear to discourage excessive inquisitiveness. I didn't care
for that part, but I had other things on my mind and was still vaguely
avoiding Jasper.

Meanwhile, Alice and I were having a photo shoot, taking pictures of
Elspeth in different outfits against assorted backdrops so that when
Renée could begin to see baby pictures, they'd seem to cover a couple of
years of first-time-parent scrapbooking, not the few months it'd take
her to rocket through infancy and toddlerhood.

"Um," said Elspeth, which was the sound she usually made when
considering whether a proferred food item was acceptable to her. I'd
been drawing on my residual knowledge of cooking to keep her fed; there
was no real kitchen in the cottage, just an old fashioned fireplace with
a pot hanging in it, so I did all the cooking in the main house and
brought the food out to her. (Gianna had woken from her coma and I
didn't particularly want Elspeth listening to her screams.) Elspeth did
not much care for food -- that, or my cooking was just not as good now
that I found none of the ingredients appealing and could scarcely
remember any part of the skill. Still, she would reluctantly eat copious
amounts of things that passed muster once we'd coaxed her into trying
them; she needed the fuel to grow as fast as she did.

"Are you hungry, Elspeth?" I asked her, swapping her sweater for a silly
ruffled dress that Alice had bought her. We were taking most of our
pictures indoors or against the backdrop of the plain sky, so the season
wouldn't be readily detectable, and Alice -- who I'd given relatively
free rein with the just-for-show outfits -- had selected items for all
weathers.

"Um," said Elspeth again, and she placed her hand on my cheek.

The feeling was like running through a memory in chronological order,
but it wasn't *my* memory. Too fuzzy to be post-turning, too complete to
be pre-, and too painless to be from the middle of the process. Also, I
was *in* the memory -- my face, as it looked to those around me. After a
moment, I realized: though I had no idea how or why, Elspeth was showing
me her perspective on her own birth. The visuals were all there,
although they didn't interfere with my real vision. It didn't come with
sound or any other sensory tracks. There was just the picture of me
leaning in and then Elspeth's vision wheeling to show the rest of the
room.

And then the picture focused in on the blood from Gianna's cut.

"Um*mmmm*," elaborated Elspeth, putting her hand down. *That* was the
sound she made when she had tasted a food and it appealed to her. As
much as *food* food ever did, anyway.

"Elspeth," I said, "in our family, we do not drink human blood. The rest
of us have to drink animal blood, but you don't have to do that. You can
eat regular food." I didn't talk baby-talk to her; it wouldn't do any
good to get used to that when we expected complete sentences back in
just a few days.

"What's going on?" asked Alice, sounding lost and holding a flowery hat.

"We've got ourselves a little witch," I said, tickling my daughter and
smiling. "A little witch who thirsts for human blood, but we will not be
encouraging bad habits, no we will *not*." Elspeth giggled, apparently
in spite of herself. Then she made a remarkably mature sort of face, one
that would have looked like a disappointed authority figure on anyone
but my two-day-old child.

"What'd she do? Is she telepathic?" asked Alice. "You acted like she'd
asked you for something."

"Sort of. It was all visuals, no sound, no words -- her own memory," I
said. "But I definitely had the impression that when she remembered the
bit about Gianna's blood, she wasn't asking after her auntie's welfare."

Alice chuckled. "Can I see if she'll show me something?" she asked,
holding her arms out.

I gave her Elspeth, who didn't appear to know what she was meant to do.
Eventually Alice took her hand and laid it against her cheek, the way
Elspeth had done of her own accord when trying to communicate with me.
"Ooh," said Elspeth, apparently comprehending, and Alice's eyelids
fluttered while she processed the offered memory.

"So now you have three sources of vision," I said. "How's that working
out for you?"

"Just a bit dizzying," murmured Alice. "She's very insistent on the
blood thing. Maybe she thinks I'll give it to her if you won't."

"Ah, no you don't, Elsie," I said, retrieving her -- and the intended hat
-- from Alice. "There will be no begging favors from others if you get a
no from me."

"Pah," said Elspeth, disgruntled, and she tried to pull the hat away
from me, but I got it onto her head and arranged her in a photogenic
pose so Alice could snap the picture.

* * * * *

When Edward got home, not long after the photos for the day had all been
taken, he noticed Elspeth's "voice" at once. He leapt into the cottage
with a grin on his face that momentarily disrupted my ability to think,
plucked Elspeth from her perch on the chair we'd last posed her in, and
spun around once, holding her at arm's length. Alice slipped out to give
us family time.

"Ee!" was her pleased response to this treatment, and when he brought
her in closer, she planted her hand on *his* cheek, too, so before I
could explain what was happening he was also the recipient of a memory.

He looked much less surprised than Alice had been, or me -- either Alice
had been thinking about it or Elspeth had, coherently enough that he'd
expected it.

"What's she showing you?" I asked.

"The last time she saw me," he murmured. "She recognizes me."

"Lucky you," I laughed. "She was begging me and Alice for blood,
earlier."

Edward's face changed, a moment after I said the word "blood". "Oh, that
does seem... hm." He blinked. "If she dislikes human food *that*
much..."

"She's two days old," I said. "This is, for her, old enough to express a
preference. Doesn't mean she's also old enough to be given charge of her
own diet. If she wants to hunt animals for herself when she's old enough
to do that, I'm not going to stop her. That'd be kind of hypocritical.
But let's not rule out the possibility that she's just being a baby and
has yet to develop a taste for what she's offered."

"I suppose," he said.

"Um*mmm*," said Elspeth insistently, patting his cheek.

"There's mashed potatoes," I said, gesturing at the fridge we'd moved
into the house to store Elspeth's food. I had cooked for the day in the
early morning, before she woke up, so during her active period I
wouldn't be distracted by putting together the meals. "She hasn't tried
those yet."

Edward dutifully retrieved the tub of mashed potatoes, warmed them up in
the microwave that had also been added to our dwelling, and offered
Elspeth a forkful. She frowned at the starchy item, but disdainfully
parted her lips and consented to taste it. Instead of making either of
her typical noises, she placed her hand on Edward's cheek. He gave her
another bite of the food.

"She approves?" I inquired, going to stand near them.

He nodded. "As much as she does of anything she's tried. I'm getting
that as much from my talent as hers, though. It's a little tricky to
decipher what she wants from the images alone."

"She doesn't have a lot to work with, if all she's doing is transmitting
her own memories. But maybe she'll grow into more versatility," I
speculated. "Interesting that she should be sticking to visuals while
you work with an auditory channel..."

"I can see images from other peoples' minds," he said, "it just feels
like I'm hearing them. Almost like synaesthesia."

"But I didn't feel like I was hearing Elspeth's memory." She was wolfing
down potatoes, barely chewing them -- she'd seemed to have a preference
for softer foods, despite her vampire-piercing set of chompers. Possibly
because she could swallow it faster and get the chore of eating over
with.

"Maybe if you were aware of your shield, it would look visible to you,"
Edward said.

"How heritable is witchcraft, anyway?"

"Where there's data, it suggests that it does run in families... but
it's skewed," Edward said. "For instance, Alec and Jane are biological
twins and powerful witches, but if only one of them had had a talent,
it's unlikely we'd ever have heard about the other."

I nodded. "But you said Charlie's thoughts are indistinct to you. That's
sort of related to what I do."

"It is. And Aro's sister was a witch, after she turned -- according to
Marcus's memories, he turned her on the suspicion that Didyme's talent
would be as useful as his own."

Elspeth finished the potatoes, having swallowed them nearly as fast as
Edward could bring the fork to her mouth. Her quick metabolism was
already burning them for fuel; there was no visible protrusion in her
belly. "What did Didyme do?" I asked Edward, plucking her from his arms
selfishly to cradle her. He looked at the pair of us with a pleased
gleam in his eye.

"She had an aura of happiness," he said, plainly not thinking very hard
about the topic of conversation as he reached out to stroke Elspeth's
cheek. "Couldn't turn it off, couldn't direct it, couldn't do anything
with it but project it everywhere she went. She had a lot of admirers,
actually, but Marcus was the only one whose interest she returned."

"That sounds pleasant, I suppose, but not that useful by Volturi
standards," I mused. "How'd Aro react to that?"

"I haven't heard Marcus dwelling on it, and as I said, I've never caught
Aro thinking of her," said Edward, still distracted by our baby's smile.
Elspeth blinked at him with her mesmerizingly brown eyes. "She's so
beautiful," he murmured.

I handed her back to him. "One of these days I'm going to stop thinking
I'm the center of the universe," I teased.

That broke his stare; his eyes flicked up to meet mine. "She's half
you," he said. "With your eyes -- your old eyes. Can you blame me?"

"Not a bit. I'm awfully pleased with her too, you know. Just -- you take
very readily to fatherhood," I said. "I knew it appealed to you, but
watching it happen is something new to integrate into how I think of
you."

He leaned over and kissed me, then returned to staring at Elspeth. She
stared back, obligingly enough. I chuckled, then asked, "How did the
errand go?"

"Well enough," he said. "We found a fellow in Oslo, and got Norwegian
papers claiming that Elspeth is a year old. There are more on order,
which will be finished in a few weeks, claiming two, three, five, seven,
ten, thirteen, and sixteen, on the theory that this will cover enough
ages to get along with during the time we're likely to spend here. That
being limited by Carlisle's ability to pass for his supposed age at
work, of course. Jasper's competent to add home-taken photographs as she
approaches those apparent ages. He was working on the one-year-old
version when I left him."

Elspeth could probably pass for a smallish one-year-old already. She was
roughly baby-*sized*, but slimmer, more alert, and toothier than any
brand-new human in the world. If I had to explain her tininess to
someone confused about her claimed yearling status, I supposed it
wouldn't even be a lie to claim that she was born prematurely.

"I feel like she ought to be getting some social interaction with people
outside the family, at least once she's talking," I said. "But it's not
safe to give her any real continuity, is it? Someone would notice. She'd
either like the people she met and miss them, or not like them and not
get much out of having met them."

"It's a big family, love," he pointed out. "Especially if Maggie and
Gianna -- and Ilario -- stay. It might do for the time being." Ilario's
original plan to go with his sister and live near Rome was not meshing
well with Maggie's affection for Ireland. There had been other topics
looming larger in their minds, of late, but there had still been
occasional spats about it. I expected Gianna to be made tiebreaker or
the engineer of compromise once she woke up, and it might be that she'd
split the difference by announcing that she wanted to remain in Norway.
They weren't at all unwelcome, although it would make our group kind of
unwieldy.

I kind of wanted to invite Charlie over, but even Edward didn't know
that he was in on the masquerade. Charlie had been sort of
passive-aggressive about this in his various e-mails, lamenting that he
didn't get to hold his new granddaughter. I might need to find an excuse
to bring her *there*, in spite of my prior resolution not to run to La
Push at the drop of a hat anymore. Maybe she could make friends with
Cody, too, and have a peer of her own species. I didn't really want to
take her to Chile to meet Nahuel. He was nice enough, but as far as I
knew he had no plans to permanently abandon his preferred diet, and that
wasn't the sort of influence I hoped to bring into her life. I didn't
want anyone in Elspeth's life to normalize murder in her hearing until
she had something resembling critical thinking faculties.

Elspeth put her hand on Edward's cheek again. "She wants you to read to
her," he announced. "Interesting... it was an image of when you read to
her last night before she went to sleep, but there was a feeling
attached to it, not just the picture."

"*That's* a request I'm perfectly happy to oblige," I said, and I
plucked the top book off the stack of reading material I'd raided from
Carlisle's library, accepted Elspeth from Edward's arms, and began to
read.

* * * * *

The subsequent morning, in the wee hours when Elspeth was still asleep,
I went up to the main house to whip up a few more batches of
miscellaneous food. I could hear Gianna from a mile away. I could hear
Maggie too, singing brokenly, trying to soothe the unsoothable, but
Gianna was far louder.

I tried to ignore it, just focused on the oats I was boiling and the
chicken I was trying to overcook until it would be soft enough to suit
Elspeth, but Gianna was hard to hedge out.

I was halfway through stirring syrup into the oatmeal when she abandoned
wordless screaming for some very underhanded *wordy* screaming.

"If you love me," I heard Gianna cry, her voice already taking on the
glassy quality of a vampire's. "Please, please, if you ever loved me."

"Baby," whispered Maggie, breaking off the song.

"It hurts, it hurts," sobbed Gianna. Her spine -- which Carlisle had
broken as soon as she came out of the coma -- had healed hours ago. "If
you love me you'll make it stop."

That was low, really. I'd begged to die too, but I hadn't impugned the
quality of Edward's love when he'd refused. Maggie whined, deep in her
throat. "It's mostly over," she said, frantic. I could hear Gianna
thrashing around, Maggie trying to find purchase and hold her. Was
Ilario even in the room, or had he left, unable to tolerate the
spectacle? "Baby, you're almost done, I promise, I promise -"

"Make it stop," Gianna begged. "I never asked you for anything --
anything -- this is the one thing I want -- if you love me -"

Maggie sounded like she was trying to cry, but she couldn't, of course.
"I love you. I love you so much, my Gianna, and I can't kill you, I
could never, I wish I could make the hurting stop right now any other
way but I can't, baby, but I love you, please, you have to know that.
It's almost over." Then, a quaver in her voice that I barely detected,
she sang again, and Gianna gave up on arguing and just howled.

I gritted my teeth a little. The screaming was bad enough, but I also
knew what it signified, and that was worse. It was all well and good to
know that Gianna would wake up a glorious immortal and return in joy
every moment of misery she was causing Maggie now, and get back every
one she was enduring by fire herself. She was still suffering.

I packed up the sweetened oatmeal. Gianna was hyperventilating. I pulled
the chicken out of the oven, and replaced it with a pan of assorted
vegetables to roast. Gianna started repeating Maggie's name, over and
over and over, too fast and desperate and strung together to sound like
she even intented to start a complete sentence. Maggie was too
distraught by this to go on with her song, and she interrupted it again,
repeating Gianna's name in turn.

I couldn't turn off my ears; if I was going to be in the house, there
were no earmuffs in the world fluffy enough to prevent me from hearing
everything they said. I busied myself with the transfer of the chicken
from its roasting pan to a more portable container, trying to ignore the
strangely intimate exchange of pain upstairs.

"Bella," said Gianna's voice, suddenly, interrupting the litany of
"Maggie, Maggie, Maggie".

"Huh?" murmured Maggie.

"What?" I said. They'd hear me as well as I'd hear them, at this point --
the remaining enhancements Gianna would get to her hearing weren't so
great that she couldn't already hear me from a flight of stairs away.

"No, *no*," Maggie pleaded. "Baby, don't do this to me, please -"

"Bella," choked Gianna. "I helped you. *Help me*."

"I won't kill you," I said.

"Baby, please stop," Maggie begged. "Ilario said no and I said no and
Bella said no and everyone's going to say no, please don't ask, baby, I
know you want to live, it's just the -"

"*I want to die,*" Gianna screamed.

There was a silence, a pause, and it occurred to me to wonder how that
statement, so bald and certain, would affect Maggie. Not a request or an
implication, just a fact.

Spoken to Maggie, who *knew* lies when she heard them...

*Gianna wasn't lying* --

There was a sound like fingernails on a chalkboard and Gianna's breath
caught and I was up the stairs and through the door without bothering to
open it. I pried Maggie off of Gianna, breaking the redhead's wrist in
my haste with an unrestrained application of newborn strength.

I seemed to have been just barely in time. There were cracks running
along the surface of Gianna's skin, where Maggie had squeezed her, but
she was basically intact, still breathing, her heart still forcing
envenomed blood through her veins. Maggie let out an incoherent sob but
didn't try to fight me; it had been a moment of weakness against her
mate's demands, then, not a concerted change of opinion.

The cracks knitted; Maggie's wrist healed. "Should've let her," gasped
Gianna. "Please. Please."

"Maggie, do you need to be somewhere else?" I asked. Gianna didn't have
the power to hurt herself; she'd be fine left alone, physically, and the
emotional succor Maggie had to provide was clearly not going to do her
any good.

"I can't, I can't, I can't, I hurt her, oh God, I didn't want to hurt
her, I *can't*," Maggie wailed.

"Maggie," whispered Gianna, but the named vampire shut her eyes tightly.

"Yes," Maggie told me. I picked her up and carried her out of the house,
away from the screaming.

* * * * *

I didn't worry about the vegetables in the oven. If they were going to
catch the house on fire, Alice would see in plenty of time. Maggie
didn't try to get me to set her down, she just curled up inwards on
herself and made keening noises.

I put her on the edge of a fjord, and she sat, mostly upright, hugging
her knees and burying her face. "Thank you," she murmured.

"You're welcome," I said, although the stock response seemed inadequate
to the situation. "Are... you... okay?"

"Ilario is better than me," Maggie said in a monotone, unlike her usual
lively voice. "He wasn't sure of himself, so he left, that was better
for her, not so risky, I wasn't sure and I stayed because I wanted her
to need me but she doesn't, she needs anybody *but* me, I was weak, I
hurt her, I knew it could happen, it happened before..."

"Before, it was a series of accidents," I said. "After, a response to a
sincere request -- albeit a request you should have seen coming. It's not
like your ultimate plan was ever to cause her harm."

"I didn't ask to die, when I was turning," Maggie murmured. "I asked if
it would be over and she said yes and I believed her because it was
true."

"It's not just a matter of believing it," I said.

Maggie clenched her hands in the fabric of her pants. The denim
strained, but she didn't tear it. "If I leave now," she said, "if she
never sees me once after she's done, do you think she has a chance to
find somebody better than me one day? Who wouldn't have t-t-tried to -"
I'd never heard a vampire stutter before.

"I have no idea," I said. "And even if she could, it might take long
enough that Alice couldn't see it. You couldn't be sure." I didn't have
the details of how Sue had felt about Harry between his turning and hers
except the obvious behavioral evidence. Let alone how she'd have fared
if he'd died while she was mid-change, and that was the nearest template
I could have extrapolated from.

"What if I died? Would that do it?"

"I don't know," I said. "Besides, how would you manage it?"

"Ilario," she said. "I could find him and tell him what happened and I
could just not fight back..."

"And then what if it doesn't work and she wakes up and she's in Irina's
position from the get-go because you've gone and gotten yourself killed
trying to free her up for somebody "better"?" I asked.

"You're right," Maggie mumbled. "But she deserves better."

"She'll forgive you," I said. "She can't not."

"I know, and that makes it worse. If I hurt her before she could have
sent me away and protected herself and now she won't even be able to do
that, at least if I see her, and who am I kidding, I can't stay away
forever if I'm alive, I'm not that *strong*, if I were then I could be
with her *now*..."

"Once she's a vampire it's unlikely you'll be in a position to hurt
her," I pointed out.

"That doesn't mean I never did," Maggie said. "I *did*."

"Do you need me to stay here with you to keep you from doing something
stupid like provoking Ilario?" I asked.

"No," said Maggie. "I'll just... wait here, I guess. Will you ask
someone to stay with Gianna, please? She shouldn't have to be alone. It
doesn't have to be you, you've got a baby to take care of -- maybe
Jasper, if he can help her at all with his power, but he probably can't,
it's not that strong -- Esme?"

"I'll find Esme and ask her," I agreed.

"Thank you," Maggie murmured, and I gave her a useless pat on the head
and left her at the edge of the fjord.

* * * * *

I stopped at the house, turned the oven off, and went looking for Esme.
I found her in the garage, chatting with Rosalie while the latter
tinkered with the engine in a giant red car that I figured probably
belonged to Emmett.

"Hello, Bella," Esme said warmly when I let myself into the building.
Rosalie lifted a greasy hand from the car parts to wave at me.

"Hi," I said. "Esme, Maggie can't stand to be around Gianna anymore, and
Ilario left just a few hours after she regained consciousness. But
Maggie doesn't want her to be alone and asked me to ask you to stay with
her for the last few hours."

"Of course, Bella," said Esme. There was no possible universe in which
Esme would refuse a request like that; she was just the sort of creature
that went about comforting the distressed, and didn't resent her nature,
either. She patted Rosalie's hair -- braided into a blond pile on her
head to keep it out of the way -- and flitted past me to go to Gianna.

I nodded to Rosalie and turned to go, having nothing in particular left
to say, but she stopped me -- "Bella."

"What?" I asked, turning back.

"Do you think -- not today, maybe not this week, but soon -- do you think
I could babysit Elspeth?"

I blinked. I was used to the idea that Rosalie was thrilled to be
involved in Elspeth's creation and birth, and that had been helpful. I
was a little puzzled by the offer -- or rather, the request -- to be
involved in her care. "We don't have a lot of other pressing
obligations..."

"I understand. I... know you don't *need* me to do anything," said
Rosalie, pursing her lips. "She sleeps and you don't, we aren't any of
us going to school this year, there's not much going on in general
except Gianna's turning, etcetera -- but if you ever wanted to go travel
with Edward for a while again, just the two of you, I would be *happy*
to look after her."

I considered the offer. Elspeth was growing fast, so outrageously fast --
every moment I had with her was precious, even more than if she'd been
human. Yet I had no grounds to confine that argument to myself and not
extend it to her other relatives. Rosalie only had so many days to play
with Elspeth-the-baby, too.

Also, this would give me cover if I needed to go abroad again: I'd "let"
Rosalie hang onto Elspeth while Edward and I "got some time to
ourselves". I *hoped* that I wouldn't need to make another significant
trip again, but it wasn't out of the question.

"I'll keep that in mind," I said. "Thank you. You know, you could come
with Alice to the photo shoot in a couple hours -- we should really have
more pictures with everybody in the family, not just me and Edward and
Alice. Just because I don't want her around the main house until
Gianna's up and about and not so shouty doesn't mean everybody else has
to be left out."

"I will," Rosalie said.

I smiled at her, then went back to the main house to fetch the roasted
vegetables and purée some fruit into a smoothie for Elspeth. Then I
started poaching some eggs. Nice, balanced diet. Esme was already doing
her best to calm Gianna, who found her suicide-by-vampire tactics far
less effective against non-Maggie individuals.

* * * * *

I brought all the food to the cottage, fridged it, and went into the
spare room that held Elspeth's bed. Edward was watching her sleep,
unwilling to leave her unsupervised for even a moment, but on this night
he was holding her hand, pressing it to his face, and had his eyes
closed.

"Bella, you have to see this," he murmured, very softly, so as not to
wake her. He motioned me closer with his free hand and put Elspeth's
palm against my cheek.

I could see her *dreams*.

I gasped involuntarily, not enough to wake her, as "remembered" colors
and forms and faces floated across my mind. Peaceful, mostly
meaningless, mesmerizingly lovely. Edward's face and mine were the most
prominent in the dream, but everyone else she'd ever met made at least
one appearance. Even Gianna, sedated and inattentive, as Elspeth had
last seen her, was featured once. Between faces, random hues faded into
each other, spun into and out of arbitrary shapes.

"It's amazing," I whispered to Edward, and he grinned at me, then went
around to the other side of her bed to try the other hand. This worked
well enough. We held still, absorbed in Elspeth's dreams, until dawn
started poking through the window and she woke up with a comical yawn.
She noticed us leaned over her and, before reasserting control over her
hands, she pushed at us the image of ourselves, with a little smugness
attached. I imagined her saying, *Ah, attention, just the way I like
it.*

"Do you think it'll delay her talking, that she can do this?" I asked,
picking up Elspeth to get her fed promptly. She did as much growing in
her sleep as she did during the day and consistently woke up hungry.
"Oatmeal, in the fridge."

Edward microwaved the food and I grabbed a spoon. "It could, but I doubt
it'll slow her down by *much*. She seems to mostly understand us,
anyway, and we can always ask her to start using words if it becomes an
issue."

Elspeth reached out her hand to me and I bent my head to "listen": she
showed me the picture of Gianna's blood, again. "No, no blood," I said.
"Breakfast today is oatmeal. You haven't had it before. You might like
it." I stood back up while Elspeth made a pouty face at me. "You'll look
out for whether she's actually not feeling well as opposed to just
wanting it for the taste, right? It's not *impossible* that her dietary
needs are different when she's growing than they will be when she's an
adult, but she's seemed healthy, just petulant."

"All I'm getting is the petulance part," he assured me. He took the
oatmeal out of the microwave, and Elspeth huffed a small sigh as its
non-blood smell steamed through the room.

"Speaking of what you pick up on," I said, giving the oatmeal a stir,
"why were you so enthralled by her dreams? They were new to me, of
course, but wouldn't you have been able to hear them regardless without
her projecting them to you?"

"Actually, I can't hear dreams," he replied. "They either don't count as
"surface thoughts", my theory, or they're too different from any mental
activity *I* can do since I don't sleep, which is Alice's hypothesis."

"Does Eleazar have an opinion?" I asked, scooping up a taste of oatmeal
to offer Elspeth and listening to her hum to herself as she contemplated
its flavor.

"Never occurred to me to inquire," Edward replied. "At any rate, dreams
are supposedly hard enough to remember while still human -- I have no
recollection of the process at all, myself -- so it was very novel to be
able to see Elspeth's."

"From what I wrote down, most dreams are much more complicated than that
-- although probably not in anything resembling Elspeth's age range. How
did you get the idea?"

"She was making sounds in her sleep -- not talking, but it was close
enough to the way you used to mumble to yourself," he said. "And it
seemed worth a try."

"Um*mmm,*" sighed Elspeth, and I gave her more oatmeal. She consumed it
with a despondent and long-suffering expression.

* * * * *

Rosalie arrived to the photo festival as promised; the grease was washed
from her hands and her hair was down again. Emmett came too; Elspeth,
who had plenty of motor control, clung to his head like it was a crows'
nest in one picture.

The look on Rosalie's face, when she had her turn to hold Elspeth and
pose, was glowing, proud, a heart-piercing smile -- with a twinge of
sorrow. She was either trying to forget that Elspeth wasn't her own
baby, and not quite succeeding, or she was reveling in aunthood and
distracted by something else, related or un-. I glanced at Edward,
looking for cues; he was calm, so I didn't worry about it.

Alice got a few shots of Rosalie holding a parka-clad Elspeth, and then
directed the costume change and the handoff. When the baby had left her
arms, Rosalie's face assumed its default expression: lofty, neutral,
introspective. Rosalie's expression normally said, *you'll have to do
better than that to get my attention*. That might have been what made
her happiness so arresting when she displayed it, come to think of it. I
was looking at her while I thought of this, and noticed a quiver of her
eybrows -- very subtle.

Rosalie wasn't paying attention to me; she was watching Edward pose for
his pictures with Elspeth. I walked into the frame after Alice was
satisfied with the batch, and then there was a nuclear family shot, and
then Edward walked off, Elspeth got a new outfit, and I took a picture
with her by myself.

It was an intricate sequence of tasks, but we all moved quite fast and
Elspeth was durable enough that we didn't have to dress and re-dress her
like she was made of soap bubbles. (She could certainly be harmed if we
were *really* careless, but avoiding it wasn't that hard and didn't slow
us down that much.) All told the taking of photos was an operation of
fifteen minutes. Alice danced away when the last snapshot was in her
camera, to upload them all to her computer, and get versions of them
that made me look pink and brown-eyed 'shopped for my ignorant family.

Rosalie lingered, even as Emmett left.

"...Do you want to give her her morning snack?" I asked. We fed her five
times a day, which wouldn't be that strange a feeding schedule for a new
baby if we weren't giving her giant portions of solid food. Although it
would be arguably stranger if she was getting a liquid diet, because in
her case that would take the form of blood. "See if she likes eggs?"

"I'd like that," said Rosalie, lighting up. I handed her Elspeth. She
followed us into the house, and, with Elspeth in one arm, she warmed up
the eggs. Rosalie seemed immensely gratified when they got a positive
reception; I supposed I should have guessed that eggs would be Elspeth's
favorite food, given their appeal to Gianna during the pregnancy -- and
Sue during hers, for that matter. It was a small thing, and it made
Rosalie immensely happy, so I refused to let myself resent the fact that
Elspeth's first eggs hadn't come directly from my hands or Edward's.

Elspeth ate her half a dozen eggs with reserved gusto. Part of me
wondered where she *put* all her food. She was maintaining a high body
temperature and growing, so I supposed it would make sense that she'd
eat like a werewolf (invariably ravenous), but the wolves were a whole
lot bigger than her. After Elspeth was informed that the sixth egg was
the last, she promptly beamed up at Rosalie and planted her palm on the
blonde's cheek. "Aww," said Rosalie, melting. "She's so polite."

"Has she found a way to say "thank you"?" I asked.

Rosalie nodded, just a little, not dislodging Elspeth's hand. "Just
replaying what happened, with a feeling attached," she cooed, rocking
the baby slightly.

I had the most peculiar feeling that *I* was somehow being intrusive by
hovering over Rosalie while she held *my* daughter. I looked over at
Edward, who was standing just behind me, a thin frown spreading across
his face. There was no obvious way to demand that Rosalie hand Elspeth
back and leave without being rude -- and setting a bad example for
manners seemed worse than just letting Rosalie loiter a bit. I put the
egg container back in the fridge to keep it out of the way; I'd wash it
later while something or other was cooking the next morning.

"Aren't you darling," cooed Rosalie. Elspeth smiled smugly.

Edward said, "Gianna's going to be done turning in less than a minute."

"Oh, we should all go look in on her," I said. "Elspeth ought to get
properly introduced. Gianna did her a very important favor, after all."
I paused. "Someone should also let Maggie know."

"Rose, would you run and tell Maggie, please?" asked Edward, holding out
his arms for Elspeth. "She's sitting on the edge of the fjord nearest
the main house." Rosalie looked regretful, but handed over our daughter
and went to inform Maggie. Edward and I, Elspeth in tow, made a beeline
for the main house; we slowed down when we could hear Gianna's last,
piercing screeches, waiting for them to die down before we brought
impressionable ears any nearer. (Elspeth's hearing was not as keen as
ours and Edward assured me that she didn't hear a thing.)

We arrived at the room where everyone was congregating last, just after
Rosalie and Maggie. Gianna was on her feet, gazing out the window, tall
and whole and perfect. The barest tea tint remained to her skin; she was
Ilario's exact match in coloration. Behind her was everyone else in the
coven, Ilario at the front of the group. Maggie stood off to one side,
cringing in expectation of some terrible retaliation for her bad
judgment hours earlier.

"Gianna?" said Ilario softly.

Gianna spun on one foot, took in the assembly of us with one sweep of
her eyes, and fixed her gaze on Maggie. Her newly crimson eyes lit up
with pleasure.

"Well..." said Maggie. "Well, look at you, baby."

Gianna flew forward, enveloping Maggie in a hug. For the first time I
consciously noted how much taller Gianna was than her mate. Maggie was
pretty little, but when I'd compared her to Gianna as a human, the known
difference in strength was more salient than mismatched stature. Maggie
squeaked when embraced, and Gianna blinked and released her, having made
the same mistake I had the first time I tried to hug Edward as a
newborn.

Simultaneously, the two of them said, "Forgive me?" Presumably Gianna
wanted forgiveness for how she'd asked to die, and Maggie wanted it for
listening to her.

It occurred to me that Ilario still didn't know what had happened while
Gianna was turning, and would have no idea why Maggie would need
forgiveness, unless he thought it was about her having left Gianna while
she turned. I supposed if he saw fit to make a fuss about the event at
this point, if he even learned the information, then Gianna would
inevitably make it not worth his while to attack Maggie.

Gianna and Maggie grinned at each other, giggling softly over the
concurrent utterances. After a moment, Gianna looked up at the rest of
us. "...Good morning," she said. Etiquette was silent on the way to
greet a group of vampires who were there to watch one newly be a
vampire. "Oh my! Is that Elspeth?"

I nodded, taking her from Edward and holding her up so Gianna could get
a better look. "Elspeth Annarose Cullen, in the flesh," I said.

"Oh, she's so cute," said Gianna. "Hello, Elspeth. You've gotten much
bigger."

"Say hi, Elsie," I prompted.

Elspeth waved at Gianna, smiling toothily, and then stretched out her
hand, wanting to communicate by memory transfer. Cautiously, aware that
Gianna *was* still a newborn and that Elspeth's blood, while not very
appealing, *was* present, I stepped forward to enable this. Gianna
looked politely puzzled by the baby's intentions until she had begun
conveying the desired information. "Oh, she knows who I am," Gianna
said, beaming.

"She's very smart, especially considering she's three days old," I said.
Elspeth dropped her hand and I re-settled her in my arms.

"You should hunt, baby," Maggie said, wrapping herself around one of
Gianna's arms. "Edward, is the place clear?"

He checked, and nodded, and Maggie urged Gianna out a window and into
the woods. Ilario followed them after a moment's deliberation.

"I'm glad that's over with," I said. "Well, Elspeth, do you want to have
a look around this house?"

Elspeth planted her hand on my face and replayed the quick journey in
through the front door and up the stairs that she'd already undertaken,
with an attached feeling of incompleteness and curiosity. "I'll take
that as a yes," I said.

That was my last peaceful day.

Scatter
=======

The phone call came the next morning. I was with the whole family,
posing Elspeth for more pictures against the backdrops available in the
main house. While Esme took her turn I picked up the phone unthinkingly,
and froze when I saw the identity of my caller. Before I could invent an
excuse to take the call privately, Jasper had seen the name.

"Jacob Black," snarled Jasper. Would he know the name? The surname
certainly, but -- I remembered a snippet of a paragraph from my notes,
read and attached to memories early in my second life. Jasper had
answered the phone first when I'd called Edward to tell him that Jacob
was at Charlie's house on Valentine's Day. He'd have been near enough to
hear the entire conversation. He would know who Jacob was -- Billy's son.
A Quileute. He'd know enough to be furious that I was in secret contact
with him.

Edward's head snapped up and he was across the room in a moment to
interpose himself between me and Jasper. The phone rang again, and
everyone else was holding still, waiting to see what was going on.

If Jacob was *calling* me -- not texting, not relaying a message through
Rachel, not sending an e-mail -- then it was *urgent*. He would know as
well as Rachel or Leah the protocols for getting ahold of me. Or at
least it had *better* be urgent, because if it wasn't, I was going to
*kill* him. I flipped the phone open, trusting Edward and Alice to keep
Jasper under control while I dealt with the emergency. "*What*?" I
snapped.

"Bella," said Jacob, "you know that bloodsucker Becky's gang killed a
while back? His mate was here sniffing around, and we couldn't catch her
when we found her -- she went into the water and we lost the trail. And
she *snitched* on us to the Volturi and now there are some scary damn
leeches who've got near everybody lying on the ground blind and deaf and
sorta paralyzed. I peeled off my own pack, same way Becky did, and was
able to get everybody with an imprint to follow me and they didn't knock
me out, somehow. Nobody else managed to get away and we had to leave
them."

"Where are you?"

"We're making a run for it, eastward -- we've got Cody too. Harry and Sue
were going to try to save their other kids last I saw. We couldn't stop
to get your dad, he's still in Forks -- mine's still in La Push.
Everybody just grabbed their imprints and we're on the run. Lucky they
were all around and nobody tried to go for the Makah rez because that
would've been suicide. We need backup right the hell *now*. The leeches
were talking about doing experiments on the pack so they're not killing
them right away but I don't want to count on that for long."

"A young-looking boy, dark blond hair...?" I asked.

"He's one of 'em, yeah, and a girl who could be his twin sister and a
couple of big skeeters, seem to take orders from the girl," Jacob said.
I could hear wind rushing past; he was probably riding one of the
escaped wolves, only in his own human form so as to be able to talk to
me.

"You got away when you split off your own pack?" I said, uncomfortably
aware of the fact that everybody in the room was staring at me. "When
the boy -- he's Alec -- when he knocked out one from a pack did it carry
over to everybody?"

"I think so -- it looked like Nina went first, only she was screaming,
not just collapsing, I think that might have been the girl and not the
boy because she had this sadistic grin on her face. And then Becky's
whole pack was down howling bloody murder, and then Rachel got too close
to 'Alec' and we were out too, but I broke off. Raych gave me an excuse,
she Alpha-voiced me so I'd have something to disobey. And it was like
all the guys with imprints had enough motivation or something to get
gone with me and nobody else did. I guess once we were up, we were out
of there too fast for the leeches to catch us."

I ground my teeth. It sounded like both Jane and Alec could echo their
powers through an entire pack via telepathic relay, and only Jacob's
split had let anyone get away at all. "I'll do what I can. Will you be
able to answer this phone if I call you later?"

"I'll give it to Kim to hold," he said, naming one of the imprints.
"You'll get her if you call again."

"Anything else I've got to know?"

"Last I saw everybody was in that big field a ways up from the ravine,"
he said. "One of the big bloodsuckers was baiting us, weaving in and out
of the rez, trying to get us all in one place to attack him as a group,
and damned if it didn't work. I don't know if they'd be able to move all
those wolves or not, but that'd be the first place I'd check. Also don't
know if we're being chased now, but have to guess so. Handing the phone
to Kim now. I'm slowing down Jared too much." Jared was the wolf who'd
imprinted on Kim. I heard the sound of Jacob giving away the phone and
leaping off Jared's back, phasing midair.

"Bella?" said a girl, presumably Kim. She was quavery. "Are you going to
be able to help us?"

"I'll do what I can," I promised. "I'm in trouble too, though, if
they've got captives -- even if they don't say anything in spite of Jane,
Aro could show up at any time and he'll get any information he wants.
Probably I could not be more on their hit list than I already am now,
even if I'd killed Aro's wife. But I'll do what I can."

"Okay," said Kim in a small voice. I snapped the phone shut.

Everybody was still staring at me.

I had missed a gaping, *obvious* security flaw. Of *course* Irina
wouldn't try to personally destroy thirty-one wolves even if she found
out that they were responsible for Laurent's death. *Of course* she was
not that stupid. Even if she were *suicidal*, revenge would take
priority over getting herself dead in a hurry, and the way you kill
someone more powerful than you is to get someone more powerful than
*them* aboard. *I'd done it myself* -- I'd brought James straight into
the Volturi's lair when I'd needed him dead and didn't have the power to
kill him -- *why* hadn't I expected the same of Irina?

And now all hell had broken loose, and several of my most necessary
allies were looking like they'd never forgive me for unleashing it.

* * * * *

I was expecting an infuriated accusation from Jasper, but it was
actually Carlisle who recovered the ability to speak first.

"Bella," he said, every inch the gravely disappointed father figure,
"what have you done?"

That broke the silence; suddenly everyone was yammering to everyone
else. Esme, still holding Elspeth, brought Ilario, Gianna, and Maggie up
to speed on the werewolf matter. Edward's rapidity of speech was
overtaxed as he defended me from simultaneous accusations from Jasper,
Rosalie, and Emmett. Alice tried to see something and then clutched her
head and squeaked, which distracted Jasper, but only made him angrier at
me when she whispered that everything was in shadow.

I wanted to hide. I wanted to run to my fairytale cottage and be with
the smaller, less difficult part of my family. Edward was busy. I
thought of asking Esme for Elspeth, but in the current climate of the
house, there was no safer place for a baby than Esme's arms -- no one
would attack Esme, Esme would not attack anyone. Me, on the other hand --
I might be less safe.

"You woke up the *dogs*?" Rosalie was shrieking.

"You knew who had killed Laurent, and you said nothing?" Carlisle asked.
He wasn't shouting, just exuding dismay. How had he made the connection
between what Jacob had said and Laurent's death? Some contact I wasn't
aware of between him and Irina or other Denalis? Didn't matter. I wasn't
getting out of this room without telling them all everything anyway.
This was not the time to figure out what secrets I could and couldn't
salvage.

"When did you even find the time to -" Emmett began, and then he looked
at Edward, who stared him down. "Ed, did you *know* -"

Jasper wasn't talking. He was hissing, curled protectively around Alice
as though he thought I'd attack her. She'd quit yelping, having stopped
trying to use her vision, but she wasn't making any move to calm down
her husband -- she was just staring at me, uncomprehending.

Esme, to her eternal credit, was trying to soothe Elspeth in between
catching up the three who were not aware of the full Cullen family
history. Elspeth wasn't crying, but she was clearly bewildered and
displeased by the shouting that was going on around her.

"I -" I began, trying to answer any of the many questions aimed at me,
but words beyond that wouldn't come. "I..."

"We need to get out of here," Maggie said fiercely, turning to Gianna
and Ilario. "We had no part in anything Bella did; we're safe from the
Volturi if we cut and run now. Siobhan and Liam will have us --
especially since we're not competing for their prey. I asked earlier.
Let's go, *now*, before we're complicit in anything."

The siblings nodded, and Ilario shot me a dark look and Gianna an
apologetic one as they left the room after Maggie.

Esme turned to face the middle of the room, where I stood. She didn't
look angry -- but she did look afraid. I'd endangered her family. The
guilt was crushing: how could I hurt Esme, of all people? As if I hadn't
done enough to the Quileutes? If I hadn't activated them, Laurent might
have killed three or four people in the area, gotten in and out in a few
days, gone home to Irina, the Volturi wouldn't have found them or at
least not so *soon*. And now Esme's loved ones -- *including me*,
including *Edward* -- were all in likely danger.

The questions died down. I located my voice -- it had sunk to somewhere
near the pit of my stomach -- and tried to answer them, one at a time,
over the tingle of fear from Jasper's hisses.

"I -- I -- I -" So this was how Maggie had stuttered: lots of room in the
vampire brain, lots of room for huge and crippling emotions, enough to
let them displace peripheral functions like language. "I activated
Rachel in July. And most of the others. Harry's a Quileute too. His
daughter hurt him and I had to turn him to save him -" I stammered,
ineloquently, through the Cliff's notes of the secrets I'd been keeping.
I had to double back several times to explain my motivations, about
Aro's witchcraft and Sue's pregnancy and the like, and even when I
offered these feeble justifications it sounded almost as though I'd been
acting randomly. Jasper growled at me (to an answering snarl from
Edward) when I mentioned that I wasn't immune to Alice, never had been,
I just fell into werewolf-derived shadows on a regular basis. Alice
looked hurt, still made no move to restrain Jasper, but she wasn't
snarling herself.

When I'd run out of things to say, events and explanations both, silence
settled over the room. Edward didn't relax at all.

"Maggie was right," said Rosalie, breaking the quiet. "The smart thing
to do, the safe thing, is to cut and run. Bella's painted a great, big
target on herself but *we* can prove to Aro that we weren't involved."

This wasn't how I'd wanted it to go, I didn't want to be like the
Denalis' mother, sacrificed as an example to my family so they would
develop a *healthy respect for the law* --

"Rose," said Edward. "Rose, you're not like this -" I could tell as he
said it that he didn't believe it. She *was* like that, exactly like
that, and she had every right to be, she didn't need to let her second
life be broken to smithereens the way her first one had because I was
playing Secret Agent Vampire behind everyone's backs.

"Edward, you *weren't* like this," she snapped. "Go get yourself
executed with Bella while she tries to save the mutts she made, fine,
your prerogative, but don't expect us to live with the mess she's
created." She paused. "Don't drag Elspeth into it either."

"No," I said, suddenly. "No, of course not. I can't bring Elspeth
there."

"I'll take her," said Rosalie readily.

I nodded, rapidly. "I got the wolves into this, I'll have to do what I
can to get them out, I'm the only prayer against Alec and Jane -- but I
should go alone. The rest of you should stay out -- Rose, if I can ask
you to look after Elsie even now..." Rosalie was nodding impatiently.
"Here would do, I suppose, or you could go to ground in one of the other
houses or Denali..."

"Bella," said Edward. "Bella, I can't leave you."

"I can't bring Elspeth there," I repeated. "Can you leave *her*? Our
daughter?"

"Don't go, Bella," Edward pleaded, recoiling from the choice presented.
"You don't have to go."

"I've gone and painted a target on myself, like Rosalie said," I
murmured. "The Volturi are going to come after me at this point whether
I go to them first or not. But if I go and I take out Jane and Alec
somehow -- and realistically I'm the only person who can do that -- and
the wolves are there and they get up and fight, then there might be a
chance."

"Go with them," I said to Edward, gesturing at the rest of the family.
"Wherever. Look after Elspeth."

"Bella, do you seriously think they'll leave Edward alone?" asked
Rosalie scathingly. "They know perfectly well he's your mate. If you
survive the head-on fight the very next thing they'll do is grab Edward
and use him as bait."

I looked up. My brain was kicking into overdrive. I could not screw this
up. I had to be *right*, I had to be *careful*, if Rosalie was willing
to tell me when and how I was being a moron then I had to *use* that
resource in order to be less of a moron. "Would they do that with
Elspeth, too?"

Rosalie didn't seem to have thought of that. "...Maybe." Esme tightened
her hold on my daughter.

I thought. I was still thinking when Alice spoke.

"Jasper," she murmured, "we need to go. Not with everyone else. The bits
I can see, the bits that aren't shadowed -- they're going to use this as
an excuse to try to collect me. Aro's never wanted anything else as much
as he's wanted a precog. A criminal in my coven is just the pretense he
needs. We have to run and keep running until it's obvious we've cut
contact and there's no excuse to try us with the others."

Jasper nodded once, jaw clenched tightly, eyes narrow. They got up and
left; I heard Alice's car starting up. They didn't discuss where they
were going -- of course; they probably weren't even thinking about it
while Edward could hear. If we could find them, then that wouldn't be a
plausible severing of contact. Alice had said enough that no one who
loved her would try to find her, and that was all she could safely say.

The room was beginning to look rather empty.

* * * * *

How could I keep my husband and daughter safe?

I didn't even need to ask myself *what do I want?* -- it was too obvious,
the sole consuming thought in my head. Edward needed to be safe. Elspeth
needed to be safe. Both of those things had to happen before anything
else could attain a shred of importance.

*What do I have?*

I had Edward -- and that was half the problem. His very attachment to me
was making him vulnerable. If it weren't assumed by everyone who knew
word one about vampires that we would be together, then he could go
somewhere with the others, hole up and wait for the Volturi to clean up
my undesireable self.

Rosalie, and Esme and Carlisle and Emmett, might abhor what I'd done,
might be forced to write Edward off as a lost cause they'd have to pinch
off the family in order to salvage anything. But they *did* want to
protect Elspeth, and that was more plausibly doable. The Volturi didn't
have the same ironclad expectations about my relationship with her.
There wasn't the same kind of precedent for half-vampire children.

Could I *hide* her? I couldn't think of anyone to hide her *with*, and
while she might *survive* if I just dropped her off in the middle of
nowhere, she wouldn't understand the need for concealment and would
eventually give herself away -- not to mention that it was hardly what I
had in mind when I thought of the word "safe". The Volturi had the
resources to track down anyone I could trust her with, from Renée to
Gianna. That held if I flung the definition of "trust" as far as it
could go and considered leaving her with distant acquaintances like the
Chilean coven. I couldn't leave her anonymously at an adoption agency or
on someone's doorstep. She grew too fast, she'd be too obviously
nonhuman to anyone taking a close look. Exactly the kind of oddity that
the Volturi liked to stamp out with lots of death.

So: if the Volturi wanted her, they could find her. Whoever had her
needed to either run from them forever or be armed with a way to make
them uninterested in kidnapping or hurting her.

Or she needed to spend so little time there that they never got around
to looking.

"Bella," said Edward.

"*I'm thinking*. It takes long enough to get to America from here that
the best way to hurry *isn't* to rush the thinking part," I said, but
anxiety betrayed the fact that I didn't feel so confident.

What *else* did I have? I was still a newborn, still a shield, might be
able to kill or at least interrupt Jane and Alec long enough to get
wolves up and fighting, before the other handful of Volturi on their
team tore me to bits, if I got there before reinforcements from Volterra
arrived. Rachel's pack and Becky's, minus Jacob and the five imprinted
wolves he'd peeled off, *maybe* plus Harry and Sue if they weren't
already dead, could probably kill off the handful of vampires that Jacob
had described. After that we could regroup; without their favorite
illusionists the Volturi would be at much more of a disadvantage against
the wolves.

So I might live long enough to be able to retrieve Elspeth from a
temporary hiding place without heavy duty defenses, if there were one
that wouldn't delay me too much to leave her at.

I couldn't *count* on being able to go back for her. But I'd already
established that she could be found wherever I put her. So that meant I
had to leave her with someone who could hang onto her if necessary, and
that someone had to have a way to convince an angry Volturi guard to
leave her alone if one came knocking.

The Volturi's top priority was containing information. They were
probably limiting their sphere of destruction to La Push, not extending
to Forks. Charlie *might* be ignored for the time being, while the
Volturi contemplated the wolves. If he turned his siren on he could be
streaking away from Forks like a bat out of hell, difficult for even a
vampire to keep up with, and he could bring Elspeth along. If I died...

Charlie couldn't fight off a vampire. His limited version of my shield
might offer some sort of defense against the same things I was immune
to, but ultimately he was human, helpless unless the Volturi had another
reason to leave Elspeth -- and Charlie -- alone. He wouldn't be able to
drive the getaway car if he was in the middle of turning, and I couldn't
wait around three days for him to finish. She -- and possibly also he --
would be bait if (when) caught. He had to sleep, he couldn't run
forever.

So Charlie was out.

Maybe I was dwelling too much on how I'd get her *back*, and not enough
on how I'd make her *safe*.

"If you go to Denali," I said softly, indicating Carlisle and Esme,
Rosalie and Emmett, "and you take Elspeth, and I make it *impossible*
for you to contact me... and I *swear* never to come for her... then
they can't use her as bait."

Edward swallowed. "But..."

"Edward has to come with me, because they will never, ever believe that
we'd cut ourselves off like that... they'd know that if they got him,
they'd get me too, and they'd be right," I whispered. "But Elspeth's
another story. I *can* leave her if... if that's the only way she can be
kept safe, is to be away from me. Between you four and the Denalis you
can make the Volturi at least ask a few questions, before they try to
attack. They need excuses to wipe out covens or they lose their aura of
legitimacy, and they don't have one for any of you. The only weak point
is making sure Elspeth can't be used to find me. So I have to be unable
to receive threats. No contact. Like Alice and Jasper. Even if I live
through this in the short term. Until and unless the Volturi are all
*gone* or so scattered as to be no threat, I can't see her."

"Bella," whispered Edward.

"Please have a better idea," I said. "That's the best I can do."

"We could just run. The three of us. You'll never be in time to save the
wolves anyway."

"I might be there in time," I said. "But you're right. We could run.
Until they caught us. And they *would*. You aren't immune to Demetri --
hell, we don't even know for sure if *I* am -- and he's met you, he can
track you down anywhere on Earth. But it might take him long enough that
Elspeth wouldn't be a baby anymore, and then she'd be obviously in
cahoots with us, and they'd just kill us all three. You and I might be
done for unless we manage to singlehandedly wipe out the Volturi, but
Elspeth has a chance if we leave her -- and it means she won't be caught
in the fight at La Push itself."

Edward's face was frozen into a mask of dread. But slowly, he managed to
nod.

"Fine," said Rosalie tightly. "We go to Denali, you go to your deaths,
but Elsie's safe with me. With all of us," she added.

"There has to be another way," said Carlisle, and Esme nodded fervently.

"There doesn't have to be another way," I said. "If there is one, if you
think of one, please, *please* tell me -- but there doesn't have to be.
The Volturi *can* be too strong to fight, too evil to dispense mercy."

There was a heavy pause, and then --

"I... I guess we need plane tickets," said Esme. "I'll... go buy them."
She handed Elspeth to me.

I turned to face Edward, standing close, so we could both hold her at
the same time. Elspeth held up both little hands, touched our faces,
showed us ourselves and how miserable and afraid we looked, and wanted
to know why.

I had no idea what to tell her.

* * * * *

Esme bought tickets. We collected our documentation. I raided a petty
cash location -- there was money stored all over the house, in various
denominations; I helped myself to a wad of American dollars in case I
did manage to get out of La Push alive. Edward pocketed half.

There weren't flights from Norway to the States so often that it would
have been worthwhile to simply leave immediately. There was a little
time before we needed to go to the airport. I fed Elspeth, as much as
she would swallow -- I didn't want her hungry around humans and tempted
to try to bite them, and even though we could all give her our airplane
food, it might not be as much as she'd want. I put on my Valentine's
bracelet.

Edward pulled a little paper packet out of a hiding place in our
cottage. "I was going to give you this tonight, after Elspeth was
asleep," he said. "But..."

I unwrapped the packet. It contained a locket. I flicked it open; it
already held pictures -- one from our wedding, one of Elspeth. I closed
it, put it on, and tucked it into my shirt, and kissed him.

Time was up. We went to the garage and piled into a car; the other four
were in another. We were on the same flight over the Atlantic and would
split up when we had to change planes.

Elspeth definitely picked up on our collective mood and kept sending us
pictures of ourselves during the first leg of the journey, wanting to
know what was wrong.

"We're going to let Grandma Esme and Grandpa Carlisle and Aunt Rosalie
and Uncle Emmett take you to see some friends in Alaska," I whispered to
her, "but me and Daddy can't go, and we'll miss you."

That explanation seemed to suffice for her. She slept through most of
the flight.

* * * * *

At the airport where we had to change planes, I almost backed out.
Almost clung to Elspeth when Rosalie reached out for her, almost said we
*should* run, *should* hope to keep away from Demetri forever, *should*
abandon the wolves and take Elspeth and not endure this loss *now* when
it could certainly be put off until *later*. I re-checked all my logic
in a flurry of desperation. But I still couldn't think of a way to hide
her, couldn't think of a way to thwart the Volturi tracker indefinitely,
and was still sure that I'd been sentenced to death and Edward with me
for the crime of being my husband. Elspeth had as much of a chance as
she could get, in Denali. If something came up that *really* changed
that situation, well, I knew where she was.

I took a deep breath, and, forcing myself not to tremble, let Rosalie
take her. "I love you," I whispered to Elspeth, and Edward echoed my
words. Edward and I handed our phones to Carlisle, to make us impossible
to contact in that direction. Impossible to threaten.

Edward hugged his adoptive parents, each in turn. I didn't try. It was
my fault there needed to be a goodbye. My fault the family was
splintering.

Their connecting flight was earlier than ours. They walked away, with
Elspeth peeping over Rosalie's shoulder and waving forlornly, and Esme
looking back every few moments, despairing. They disappeared around a
corner.

We had time to buy new phones -- we left the airport and did that, then
went back in. I texted Jacob, giving him my new number and telling him
our expected arrival time in case he wanted to be part of the cavalry.
There was no answer before we boarded our second plane.

Elspeth's absence felt cold. I didn't *need* warmth. I could live in the
vacuum of space, if it came to that. But I *missed* it, I missed *her*,
her heartbeat and her quick little breaths and the heat when I held her.
The play of color in her dreams. I sat as close to Edward as the
airplane seats allowed, wrapped myself up in his presence and tried to
offer back what I could to him.

My baby was five days old, and in five days she'd become so important.
*Could* we stay away from Denali? What mattered was really if everyone
else *thought* we could, I supposed, and no one else could look into my
mind and feel the cold.

We talked, a little: quiet discussions of tactics. If the Volturi had
backup there before we arrived instead of just the twins and the two
others Jacob had seen, we would do thus and such; if Jacob's pack didn't
show, that would have this other implication. I paid just enough
attention to memorize the new information and dredge up relevant tidbits
about the wolves. Most of my mind was on our daughter and how cold it
was without her.

I said that to Edward, when there was no other contingency plan to
invent -- "It's cold."

He nodded. He knew what I meant.

I pulled my locket out of my shirt and touched the side of it that held
Elspeth's picture. *She's safe, safe as I can make her*, I told myself.
*That's what's important. I've always known that it's more important
that my loved ones be alive, that they be happy, than that they be near.
That's why I don't live in Jacksonville with Renée and Phil right now,
attending twelfth grade and keeping notebooks and being human and being
single and childless.*

Single and childless. No state had ever seemed so distant. Edward was
part of me, attached, inseparable, essential; Elspeth was part of me,
carved out of my heart and secreted away for safekeeping, leaving an
unhealing wound in her wake. The Florida-dwelling high-schooler I could
have turned into, with one different choice, was not me. She just would
have gone by the same name. Or maybe she'd have people calling her
"Izzy" by this point. Who knew.

"I had such delusions of grandeur," I murmured. "I was going to build up
the population of wolves over years and years, collect allies, work on
my shield, take over the world. Convert everybody to vegetarianism, turn
humans as fast as we could handle them, cure death."

"I love you," said Edward. I put my locket back in my shirt.

"I love you," I replied.

There was nothing left to say.

* * * * *

When we got off the plane, I checked my new phone. There was a message
from Jacob -- or from his phone, anyway. Someone else had probably typed
it. *Jake fazed n says Rchl n Beky have smthg rong w/ thm,* it said,
*unanmus not 2 go bak n risk it b/c nowere safe 4 imprins 2 hide*. I
dialed the number, hoping to get more detail; there was no answer. I
tried four times and gave up.

"That's six wolves out of the picture, whether they got run down or
something else happened that no one's picking up," I said. "And
depending on what the 'something wrong' is, maybe the other twenty-five
as well. Those girls they took have families, too -- if they make a fuss
about their daughters being kidnapped that means a bigger coverup job
for the Volturi... just how many people did I get killed?"

"If the Volturi kill people, they kill people, not you," Edward said,
and I knew he was copying what I'd said to Gianna about Maggie earlier.
It was unhelpful. So many people, dead or about to be --

"They've probably wiped out everyone on the Quileute reservation," I
said. "But there's only one Quileute imprint; that won't keep it
contained even if they explain everyone on the reservation going
missing. Three Makahs -- including a toddler! -- and a girl from Forks are
the others; they can get that information easily from any wolf. What are
the Volturi going to do, wipe out the entire population of the Olympic
Peninsula to keep people from investigating those disappearances in a
way that implicates the supernatural?"

"There are more immediate concerns," Edward said.

I pushed my hair out of my face, staring at the phone, willing it to
ring; it didn't, so I put it in my pocket. "Right. Anything could be
going on with Rachel and Becky -- Jane could be hurting them, it could
just be that extended sensory deprivation via Alec is interacting
strangely with their telepathy -- either case, I might be able to get
them up and in the fight if I can take out or at least distract the
illusionists."

"If we get close enough for me to hear their thoughts, I can probably
figure it out without us getting near enough that they'll notice us,"
Edward said.

"Right," I said again. "If the wolves are out of commission... if I
can't get them up even if I get the witch twins out of the picture...
*then* we have no chance in a stand-up fight, *then* we run and hope
they take a long time to catch us."

Edward nodded once.

We headed west.

"Do you want to check on your father?" Edward asked, as we passed close
to Forks.

"Yes," I admitted, "but... we shouldn't."

"We don't have to do anything that will leave a trace," Edward said.
"His thoughts aren't *quiet*, only indistinct -- we just need to go
through town and I'll be able to hear him."

"Even if he's okay, you still might not find him. Jacob's pack could
have warned him and he could be running away, or he could be out of town
for some unrelated reason. We don't have time to check really
thoroughly. I'd be more worried if we went through town and you didn't
hear him than I am now."

Edward nodded. "After, then."

"Right. If there's an after."

"We can run if the wolves aren't able to help," he reminded me. "There
will be an after. I won't *let* you die."

We went past Forks, and I was glad I couldn't cry.

* * * * *

We slowed down when we were within a few miles of the field where we
expected to find the center of the action. Edward crept forward several
paces ahead of me, listening. When he stopped, I stopped. We were only a
mile and a half from the edge of the field -- barely out of earshot for
noises the volume of ordinary voices.

"I hear Aro," Edward said.

"He's the most familiar voice there?" I asked, feeling compelled to
whisper even though I heard nothing besides ordinary forest noises.

"Or close enough. Some of his familiarity is borrowed from people he's
read, including me."

"What are you getting from him?"

Edward closed his eyes and focused. "He's reading someone. It's very
fast, I can't quite... I think it's one of the wolves, maybe Rachel." A
minute of silence passed as he waited for Aro to finish reading his
target. "Yes, that was Rachel. The wolves are all alive, but Chelsea's
there -- and someone I haven't heard of, a new witch. I don't hear all
the details but the new witch is doing the same thing Chelsea does. The
wolves are... with the two of them working in concert..."

"We're dead," I said. Chelsea alone was enough to hold the Volturi
together against fractious vampire instinct; she and another vampire
with a comparable power could probably turn the wolves' loyalties. The
imprinted wolves would have had stronger outside claims on their
devotion than witchcraft could fabricate and would have been able to
pull away given the freedom of Jacob's third pack. Not so for the
others. Jacob had mentioned Jane, Alec, and two "big skeeters". For the
timing to work, Chelsea, and possibly also the new witch, had probably
been hiding until after he left. They were resources too important to
risk until the illusionists had done their damage.

"They don't know we're here. I can listen a little longer, maybe find
something that will help us hide," Edward said. "The group that was here
to start was Jane, Alec, Afton, Demetri, Chelsea, and the new witch --
oh, her name is Addy. Aro, with Renata, arrived fairly recently and he's
checking Chelsea and Addy's work before the wolves are allowed to wake.
Now he's reading Becky." Demetri and Afton would be the "big skeeters",
then, most likely.

"If Demetri is there and the wolves are the Volturi's new best friends,
shouldn't we be running as fast as we can so we have more of a head
start when they start looking for us?"

"Bella, they might *not* want to kill us," said Edward, full of hope.
"They think the wolves are *useful*, they're going to make them a sort
of outer guard -- they might not blame you for activating them."

"Do you really think so?" I breathed. I didn't want two large packs of
wolves added to the Volturi's arsenal, but if it meant that the arsenal
wouldn't be turned on me and Edward --

We could have our lives back, we could have our daughter back --

"It's not a sure thing," he admitted. "But it's possible."

"Keep listening," I said.

After a moment, Edward said, "Harry and Sue are dead." Of course they
were. They wouldn't have liked what was happening to their children,
they'd have tried to intervene, but they had no fighting experience
whatever. They could have been brought down at range with next to no
effort, dismantled and incinerated at leisure. "So is everyone else who
lived on the reservation -- except a number of children who carry the
gene and are too young to activate," he went on after a pause. "They're
going to bring them to Volterra and torch the village."

Of course they were.

"Can you hear anything about us?" I asked. "Do they want us dead, do
they want to give me a medal, do they think we're beneath notice, what?"

"I can still hear only Aro," Edward said. "He's... giving Alec the
go-ahead to release one pack. Rachel's. They're going to make sure that
they're sufficiently under control, that they don't need a little more
tweaking from Chelsea and Addy."

"Check how, exactly?" I said, leery of the possibility that this could
involve sending wolves running in formations all over the area that
might intersect with where we were standing.

"They're calling it good if the wolves will sit and stay when told,"
said Edward, disgustedly. "And phase on command. That's all they need to
get them to Italy safely; Chelsea and Addy can go on working with them
indefinitely."

"And... the wolves are taking this how?"

"I can't hear their thoughts -- they're following the orders, but I don't
know how they feel about it. We could go closer..."

"Not until we have some idea of whether we're on death row or not," I
said.

"Aro's reading Rachel again," Edward reported. "Now he's giving the
go-ahead to wake Becky's pack. They're behaving similarly."

"Did you get anything from his read on Rachel?" In the midst of so many
things to be concerned about, I didn't have much to spare for her, but I
was *somewhat* upset about her approximate enslavement by the Volturi.

"Not much... but... it sounded like Chelsea managed to twist their
loyalties in large part by directing their native dislike of vampires at
you," he said regretfully. "She doesn't spin affection out of thin air,
she needs some resources to work with; I surmise Addy works similarly.
It sounded like -- mind, it went by very fast, I've certainly missed bits
-- like the Volturi have set themselves up in the wolves' minds as a
necessary check on the general vampire population, to prevent rogue
vampires like you from causing damage."

"Splendid. Just splendid. So the wolves all hate me and they're working
for the Volturi to help them necessarily check the vampire population --
are they thrilled at the honor, do they wish the last few months were
all a dream so they could live normal human lives, or what?"

"The impression I have is one of the entire mess being a dirty job that
someone has to do. But it went by extremely quickly, it was harder to
follow than a normal read -- a dozen minds all going by at once through
hers -- I can't be very precise."

"Did Aro tell Chelsea and Addy to use that angle where I'm a dangerous
rogue, or did they pick it on their own, or was it the only one
available? That could be a clue about how dead we are," I suggested.

"I haven't heard about that. Aro, at least, isn't thinking of us at all
right now. He's considering how best to deploy the wolves."

"How long are they going to be standing around in that field?" I asked.

"I don't know. They *aren't* aware that we're here, or Aro would be
thinking about it," Edward said. "We can move in a little and I should
be able to read the guard members, if not the wolves."

Part of me wanted to say no and demand that we turn tail and run. There
were only two of us, versus eight vampires (mostly witches) and
twenty-five wolves. If they *did* want us dead, we needed as much
distance as we could possibly get between us and Demetri, who was *right
there* and could be ordered to hunt us down at any moment. And then he
could point and say "thataway" and we would be toast.

On the other hand, if they *didn't* want to kill us, if Demetri *wasn't*
particularly interested in finding us, then we could go to Denali and
get Elspeth. And that was possible. They were using the wolves, after
all.

I was so cold.

"Okay," I murmured. "But quietly. And sign language."

He signed back, "All right."

We crept forward, one step at a time, waiting for someone else to cross
the border of Edward's hearing.

Ashes
=====

"I hear the guard now except for Addy," Edward signed to me. We were
just barely more than one mile from the field. Only the fact that nobody
was raising their voice kept us from being able to listen directly to
their conversation. Only thick tree cover kept us from being able to see
them, up to and including the whites of their eyes. And vice versa. I
held very still, moving only my hands to reply.

"And?" I asked.

"They don't want to kill *me*..." he signed. "Aro's still hoping to
recruit me. They haven't gotten to the subject of you yet."

"Well, if they're hoping to recruit you, then that does limit what they
can do to me," I answered. A hot flare of hope lit somewhere in my
chest.

Edward nodded, a guarded grin spreading across his face. Then it
disappeared.

"What?" I signed, alarmed.

"Run," he whispered, his hands unavailable to communicate silently
because he was grabbing my hand and pulling me away. I couldn't keep up
with his top speed, but he wasn't about to leave me behind.

"I'm slowing you down, we should split up, he can't track me and can't
catch you -" I started to say. I didn't know why we were running, what
he'd heard, but before I'd had a chance to try to convince Edward to let
go of my hand and take off in another direction, we were tackled from
behind.

I snapped my head around enough to recognize Leah's wolf form. She was
the fastest wolf, faster than me, maybe not faster than Edward but he'd
been trying to keep pace with me, and we could have fought off one wolf
together but the others caught up almost at once.

Leah and at least one other wolf snapped their heads towards me and I
flung out my one free hand to try to defend myself. I couldn't tell if
I'd done any damage because I was in pieces an instant later. My ears
stopped working. My eyes were unresponsive. I couldn't inhale to see if
my nose was working. That was just as well because I couldn't have
processed any sensory input through the shattering pain.

The pain, all by itself, wasn't as bad as turning, although it was in
the same class. But it wasn't only pain: my proprioception was
desperately confused. It was insisting that every direction was down. I
sort of thought that I might be able to move some of my muscles, but the
input from them was unclear, fuzzed out in comparison to the sharp
awareness of the damage -- I could try to twitch a finger but I didn't
know whether I'd managed it or what the finger might be touching. I
couldn't do anything, couldn't help --

*Edward* -- was he okay -- had he gotten away? -- he could outrun them if
only he'd leave me behind, but he never would...

The sensations apart from the pain were impossible to interpret, and my
sense of time was shot to hell. I could have been in a heap moments
later or scattered across a football field the following week, still in
the mouths of several wolves or --

There was a sensation I recognized: I was on fire.

*That* was as bad as turning.

I couldn't scream. Couldn't flail around. There was only pain and
dizziness and terror and *I was going to die* and what kind of shield
could represent itself as protection for my mind if it was going to let
my mind cease to *exist*, the mind was not *safe* without the body --

I felt something -- something that wasn't pain. I couldn't be *healing*,
not shattered into a hundred fragments and burning, but I *felt
something*, like I was under a blanket that hugged my surface -- my
shield? Manifesting in some form I could detect only *now*, when it
would die with me?

I tried to pull it in, willed it to put out the fire, *come on, shield,
if you want my mind safe you have to let it have someplace to live -- the
mind is not safe without the body* --

The shield sucked in closer to me and the fire was out and I was
violently rearranged into my normal shape. The pain didn't fade at once.
I was still broken along all the original fracture points, though the
shards of my body had been forced flush with their neighbors. My eyes
and ears didn't return to me immediately. But those wounds knitted,
though they went sluggishly. A lot of the venom had burned out of me.
There was enough left that I *could* heal, though.

I didn't try to move. I didn't want to dislodge the rearrangement my
shield had provided. But I could look around when my vision came back. I
was in a deep pit, on top of a heap of ashes. Harry and Sue, I guessed.

Maybe Edward. Maybe he'd been killed first and I was lying on top of his
ashes. I recoiled from the thought. They hadn't planned to kill him;
perhaps they truly hadn't, perhaps he'd only pulled us away from the
field because they were going to kill *me*, he might be alive --

One of my ears started working. Sounds echoed crazily between the walls
of the pit, reaching my ear in a distorted timbre. "- my matches,"
grumbled a man's voice I hadn't heard before. "Damn wet climate. Go ask
Jane if she has a lighter, will you?"

"Didn't think we were going to kill this one," said an unfamiliar woman.

"Doesn't surprise me. You'd get it if you had a mate," said the man.
There were footsteps, receding and then approaching again.

Edward thought I was dead -- they all thought I was dead -- reasonable
enough given that I'd been broken into a hundred pieces and set on fire
-- they'd wanted to control him but that plan had been shot to hell when
they'd killed me --

I tried to move, I had to do something, I had to save him, *he* had no
shield.

I dragged my left arm close to me, and felt the snug blanket of my
shield shift with it, but I was fragile. Deep fissures ran along my
skin; if I applied any pressure to the limb it would break again. I was
dangerously low on venom; it might not be able to get me whole even if I
didn't worsen the injuries. I couldn't even get out of the ash pit.

"Here's your lighter," said the woman.

"Thanks, Addy, you're a peach," said the man.

There was a crackling noise. My Edward, on fire, I couldn't *move* -- "In
the pit?" asked Addy.

"Pit was to keep the smoke away from the wolves, they're gone now, no
point," he said. I didn't know whether to be glad of that or not; I
couldn't bear to watch him die but I couldn't bear that he was alone,
that he thought *I* was dead. I might as well be. *Edward, Edward* --

"Dunno how well the wolf thing'll work," Addy said skeptically. I wanted
them to shut up. I didn't want to listen to this, I wanted the silence
back, I wanted to have no idea what was going on around me when what was
going on was that *Edward was dying* --

"Don't think you and Chelsea did a good job of it?"

"We did a fine job. She's fun to work with," Addy replied. "And the
wolves are interesting material -- so interwoven; tweak one thing and
they all change. But I mean things like the way that black one passed
out when it smelled the smoke from those newborns. Biological stuff. Are
they worth the complications?" My lungs regained their integrity; I was
sure I could have taken a breath. I didn't. They'd hear me. They'd
probably only ignored the sound of my arm moving because it could have
been part of the fire that was supposed to be consuming me. I willed it
back. Willed the flames to spring into existence again, trade this pain
for that one. But I wasn't a pyrokineticist, I was a shield. That was
the only reason I was alive.

Edward would have wanted me to live.

The cracks in the arm I could see were getting shallower. The physical
pain, at least, was at a manageable level. The hollow, dead feeling in
my chest wasn't the sort of thing the venom would ever heal.

But Edward would have wanted me to live.

I lay there, inert, listening to the crackling and popping of the fire
as it widowed me. Listening to Addy and whoever the man was make small
talk over his smoldering remains.

"Aro thinks so," the man said.

"Of course. And he knows more about the matter than I do," Addy said.
"Still, it seems to present a logistical challenge."

I wanted her to die. I wanted whoever she was talking to, to die. I
wanted Aro dead and his "brothers" dead and their wives dead and every
person who had ever peaceably wandered the halls of their compound
*dead* including me because Edward was gone and I couldn't stand it and
if I were dead I wouldn't have to.

He would have wanted me to live.

"Do you think the coven will be a problem?" the man asked.

"No, I doubt it -" Addy began. "Coming, boss!" Some gesture of Aro's I
hadn't been able to hear, maybe, calling them away.

Footsteps receded.

There was silence.

Edward would have wanted me to live.

I remained still.

The visible damage, at least, healed.

* * * * *

My thirst did not care that I was alone. It came anyway, the insistent
burn in my throat.

I watched the sun rise, and watched little diamonds dance across my
smoothed-over skin. All that, and the only scar on me was the bite mark
on my wrist. But the trauma and recovery, if it could be called
"recovery", had taken a lot out of me. If I didn't get blood soon I
wasn't sure exactly what would happen, but it wouldn't be conducive to
my health.

I hadn't heard anything, all night. The Volturi had been and gone, the
wolves with them. No one had even looked into the ash pit. I could
safely climb out and hunt, now.

Edward would have wanted it.

I pulled myself into a sitting position. I felt brittle, but not achy or
tired. I could move around. I was in adequate shape to kill an animal.

I climbed out of the hole, slower than I needed to go. I looked around
at the dewy field, down into the pit where Harry and Sue had been
carelessly dumped. Any humans who wandered through this place and found
the greasy ashes would think it was from a barbecue or something. No one
would mistake it for a grave.

I kicked a little dirt over the ash, but couldn't muster any enthusaism
for a serious burial. "Harry," I said. "Sue." Just their names.
Acknowledging that I knew they were there, or that the transformed
matter that they'd once inhabited was there, anyway.

Then I dared to turn around.

There was a heap of ashes in the middle of the field, indistinguishable
from the ones I'd been lying on.

I couldn't say his name. It wouldn't come to my lips.

I approached the pile, silently, and touched the ash. It wasn't even
warm anymore; I'd been waiting for nothing in the hole in the ground
long enough that they'd cooled. I picked up one sliver of charcoal
gently.

I wanted to put it in my locket. I didn't have my locket anymore -- or my
rings, or my bracelet, or my clothes, or my wallet, or my hair. My
shield had saved me from the fire, but not my possessions, and hair
didn't heal as flesh did. The jewelry at least might have fallen off
when I was originally tackled. I wandered in that direction, cradling
the piece of ash in my palm.

I actually did find the necklace. The clasp was broken, but the chain
was mostly intact and the charm was fine. I tied the chain around my
neck, and opened the locket to put the ash between the pictures.

*Elspeth...*

* * * * *

I wanted to look for the rest of my jewelry. The rings, at *least*, the
physical evidence that Edward had existed, that he'd loved me, that he'd
been mine. But finding the locket had taken long enough and I was
unbearably thirsty.

I listened. The forest was relatively clear of wildlife -- sensible,
given how many vampires had been swarming around the place over the last
who-knew-how-long. I didn't know what day it was. I'd lost all the cues
of time when I'd been in fragments. It was still autumn, at least. But I
heard some elk, at the borders of my hearing, and I chased them down and
killed three and drank them dry. The taste of herbivores was rancid but
I was past caring. I needed the burn soothed. Strength flowed back into
my limbs as I absorbed the blood. Too little, too late, but I was
physically back to normal apart from being bald.

I noticed, when I'd filled up, that I could still feel my shield. It
hadn't ranked as a significant sensation when I'd been thirsty, but now
that I thought of it there was a definite layer of *something* wrapped
around me. I touched my arm, but my fingers didn't detect anything -- it
was some second layer of "feeling", then, like the second channel of
hearing Edward had...

My train of thought derailed at once. I made an involuntary choking
noise and coughed up a droplet of sour blood. Would it be like that
forever? Every thought leading to Edward, every thought of Edward
throwing me into fresh grief? I couldn't function that way. That
wouldn't have mattered -- but Edward would have wanted me to *live*, to
be *alive*, not just to fail to be a heap of ashes. I knew he would.

*"I won't*let*you die..."* I could remember his voice so clearly. So
honeyed and certain.

I wished with all my heart that he'd loved me less, enough that he could
have run without me. He could have gotten away. They hadn't *planned* to
kill him, he'd said. They wouldn't have needed to if he hadn't been too
distraught over *me* to ever be recruited. The fact that I had been able
to survive the attack only made it more appalling that he'd lost his
life that way. But even if I'd been completely burnt, he could have been
fine. If he'd loved me less.

I went back and looked for my rings. I found the bracelet first; one of
its diamonds poked out from under a leaf. Some of the silver pieces were
slightly munched. It was less flexible than it had been. But I put it on
anyway, and kept looking.

I found my engagement ring first. The ring part had been bent out of
shape but the lattice of gems was all right. The wedding band was nearby
and looked fine; I put that on, but didn't dare try to tap the other
ring into shape. I'd find a way to get it repaired professionally. For
the time being I threaded it onto the locket's chain.

I couldn't find Edward's ring anywhere. I searched every inch of the
forest in a plausible radius of where we'd been caught, I followed the
path from there to the field, I shut my eyes and forced myself to feel
through the pile of ashes. It wasn't there, even in the form of a melted
lump of gold. I didn't know what could have happened to it. Had one of
the Volturi bothered to steal it while leaving mine untouched? Why? What
would they want with it? I retraced all my steps, looking for disturbed
soil where it could have been stomped into the ground, going through
heaps of discarded foliage one needle at a time. Nothing.

While I probably *could* have paced back and forth stark naked in the
woods looking for the ring for the rest of my life, it didn't seem like
the kind of *living* Edward would have wanted me to do. I was beginning
to think that I was forever going to have to motivate myself to do
anything that way. That I would never be able to accomplish tasks that I
couldn't somehow make *about Edward*, about what *Edward* would have
wanted.

What about Elspeth?

*Everyone* thought I was dead -- or if they didn't now, they would soon
enough, when the news got out. That gave me a measure of safety. And her
as well. No one would be looking for me, and she would not be sought as
bait for a trap intended for a dead woman. She was safe in Denali.

If I went to get her, then my in-laws would know I wasn't dead. That
would eventually get back to the Volturi. Then, I wouldn't just need to
lie low, I'd need to run, and Elspeth could be in danger. I had ample
evidence that my protections weren't worth a damn for anyone else. It
hadn't done anything for Edward.

I wanted her, I wanted to try to fill the hole Edward's death had left
in me with our daughter, I wanted to cradle her close and let her warm
me up, I wanted to stroke the hair that was so much like his, I wanted
to see her father's face in her dreams again. I wanted her to know that
she was only half-orphaned.

But I *needed* her to be safe.

I had lost more than I could stand to lose. If Elspeth died, I didn't
know if I would be capable of going on, even given what I knew Edward
would have wanted. She was the last living part of him, and she had to
go on breathing.

I wandered towards the village, where supposedly everyone was dead or
kidnapped and everything burned. Everything was. Charred husks of homes
crumbled around me as I walked through the deserted reservation. I went
farther, towards Harry's shack. It was intact, or at least as intact as
it had ever gotten to be from its original tumbledown state. There were
some clothes inside. I took an outfit of Sue's. She wouldn't need it and
no one would miss it. She had a small collection of scarves. I wrapped
one around my hairless scalp. Between the baldness and the now-constant
feel of my shield clinging to my skin, I felt terribly strange.

I wondered why the village wasn't crawling with cops, suspecting arson.
Charlie should have been there, prowling the area, trying to figure out
what had happened. Maybe the Volturi had intervened with some police
connection and the destruction was officially a natural disaster. Maybe
I'd been in bite-sized chunks for a few weeks and all of the detective
work had been and gone. Maybe Charlie was dead.

Charlie didn't approach the importance of Edward or Elspeth, but I could
check on *him*. He wouldn't notice me if I hid well enough. I could
stake out his house for a while and see if he was going about his life
normally.

I wondered if Carlisle and the others would bother to tell my father I
was dead. Would it make him safer or less safe to believe that? I
couldn't keep in touch with him; if there were actual *evidence* in his
inbox or phone call history that I was alive then that could be found
one day. But if he simply *thought* I was alive, on the grounds that no
one had told him otherwise, that might be fine. Unless he started
digging around to find out why I wasn't answering my phone or my e-mail.

Renée was probably in less danger than Charlie either way. She wasn't a
cop and couldn't get the same kind of attention if she became
inquisitive. I supposed I could go to Florida and skulk around her
house, to see if she went on crying jags or otherwise indicated that she
believed me dead.

* * * * *

Such a trip turned out to be unnecessary. At nightfall, I went into
Forks and climbed Charlie's next-door neighbor's chimney. I hid behind
it, pressed between the bricks and the shingles and leaning just enough
to see Charlie's house. His cruiser wasn't there. I didn't see my old
truck, either. I didn't particularly care. It'd be noticed if it went
missing, so I couldn't exactly take it. I'd travel faster on foot
anyway.

I waited several hours, half an eye on Charlie's empty house. The rest
of my mind was on Edward. On my memories of him. It was like chewing on
broken glass to think of them, but I couldn't stop myself. I needed
Edward, and if all I could have were memories, then that was what I'd
take.

*"Edward, do you trust me?"*

"*Absolutely.*"

I bit my lip, almost hard enough to pierce the skin. I considered doing
that on purpose -- it would be distracting, at least, and my *own* venom
wouldn't scar -- but then Charlie's police car pulled onto the street. He
was driving it, so he was alive, at least for the time being. He did
look bereaved... but then, Billy and Harry were dead. They'd been his
best friends. Their deaths alone could do that.

He parked in the driveway and went inside. I heard him put something in
the microwave. Then he picked up the phone and dialed it. I could
faintly hear the beeps; by their pitch, I knew it was Renée's number.

I wasn't close enough to make out Renée's half of the conversation; I
jumped lightly from the neighbor's roof onto the ground and darted
immediately into a shrub with a good angle to his window, so I could see
what Charlie was doing as well as hear. I was wearing long sleeves and
dark colors, but that didn't mean nobody could see me if they were
looking the wrong way while I wasn't behind cover.

"Anything?" Charlie asked.

"No, she didn't answer the phone today either," Renée said. "What makes
you think she was in the fire? She didn't say anything to me about
visiting you -- did she just not mention it or -"

"It... might have been a surprise visit," Charlie said carefully. "There
are friends of the family in La Push she might have stayed with so she
could surprise me." He was trying to convince Renée that I was dead
without going into the evidence. He'd evidently not looked at the field
with the vampire ashes, because he could have seen me in the pit, but
even I hadn't known what vampire ashes looked like until I saw them. So
the absence of the correct kind of ash in La Push proper wouldn't
necessarily have tipped him off. But the sheer destruction, my lack of
contact, and the fact that he knew I was up to my neck in the mess with
the wolves would have.

"Do you know yet who might have set the fire? It *was* arson, wasn't
it?" Renée asked.

"I think so -- but the scope of it was -- well, the case has gone federal.
I'm not supposed to touch it. Even if the feds hadn't taken over, since
Bella might have been in it, I might have been considered too close to
the case."

"How can our little girl be gone?" asked Renée in a small voice.

"Well, we can't be sure," said Charlie. There was no hope in his voice,
he was just trying to calm Renée. "Can't be sure at all. There's nothing
recognizeable in the ashes. But..."

"And you haven't been able to get in touch with our *son-in-law*? Or his
family?" asked Renée, and I almost wailed aloud from the stab of loss at
hearing Edward mentioned, but I held my tongue.

"He's as impossible to get hold of as she is," Charlie said. "I tried
his sister, Alice, I had her number, but there's no answer from her
either. I don't know how to call anyone else."

"Bella was *pregnant*," wailed Renée.

"One second," said Charlie in an unstable voice, and he put my mother on
hold and turned away from the phone and brought both fists down on his
kitchen table, a scream of rage boiling up from somewhere deep in his
chest. He lifted his hands and curled them into fists in his hair, then
struck the table again, making noises of frustration and grief. He knew
Elspeth had been born already. He'd seen her baby pictures. He knew he
was a grandfather. He'd never be able to tell Renée that she was a
grandmother already, that she hadn't lost that chance when I'd "died".
He had no way to get in touch with his granddaughter. He didn't know if
she was alive.

I was a little tempted to show myself. But oddly, Charlie's pain didn't
strike me as deeply as it would have a month ago. I didn't like it, but
it was safer this way. The impulse to comfort him was shallow. The need
to prevent more of my family from dying was deep. My parents had to
think I was dead. Everyone did.

Charlie exhausted his need to yell and hit things. He took several deep
breaths, picked up the phone again, and said, "Sorry about that."

"You'll call me if you hear anything else, won't you?" Renée said.

"Of course. Of course," said Charlie. "I have to go. Goodbye." He hung
up without waiting for her to answer, and stood as still as a human
could, swaying faintly and staring into space.

He swore under his breath, got his dinner out of the microwave, and
started forcing food down his throat.

I crept out of the shrubbery and disappeared into the woods.

* * * * *

I had nowhere in particular to be. Nothing in particular to do. I could
go anywhere except a few hazardous locations. It was a pity that those
were the only places I wanted to be -- Denali, where my daughter was.
Volterra, where a lot of people I wanted to kill were.

I walked toward Chicago. Edward's birthplace. I didn't bother running --
there was no hurry. On sunny days I stayed put in uninhabited areas, to
reduce the odds of being noticed as too glittery by some human. I took
in a lot of scenery. I ate animals unfortunate enough to cross my path.
I happened to pass through a town one evening and notice costumed
children wandering door-to-door for candy; thereafter I was aware of the
date, irrelevant though it was.

I thought of Edward several times a minute, flipping through every
memory I had of him, as though I could fix them more securely in my
heart by rehearsing them. I forced more detail out of the fuzzy human
recollections than I'd bothered with when I'd first gone through my
notes. Every last time he'd touched me. Every single kiss. Every word
he'd spoken. Every expression that had crossed his face.

Elspeth occupied my thoughts, too, but I did less remembering and more
speculating: what would Rosalie feed her today? Where would Carlisle
take her on her one-month "birthday"? Did she talk yet or was her
witchcraft slowing her down? What was her voice like, when she uttered
words? Did Emmett toss her into the air to make her laugh? What would
Esme see now, if she watched her dream? Did she get along with Tanya and
Kate and Carmen and Eleazar and David? Was Irina still there, or had she
broken off from the coven? Which house was she living in, which room
held my baby when she slept...?

I needed money to get my ring repaired and to replace the chain of my
locket and repair the bracelet. It was also limiting my movement that I
didn't have any shoes; I didn't need them for comfort, but their absence
did attract attention. That made the shoes a more urgent problem than
the ring. The lack of hair -- new growth just barely fuzzing back into
existence -- was already more oddness that would be ideal; I was glad for
Sue's scarf.

It was November. Anyone would remark on my lack of shoes. I found a five
dollar bill on the ground in a town in Idaho that I passed through, and
used it to buy cheap boots from a thrift store.

A week later, I stopped at a random, medium-sized town in Montana, on a
snowy afternoon. I knocked on a few doors in a suburb, offering to
shovel driveways and sidewalks. I looked seventeen; it was a plausible
occupation, requiring no ID, as long as I didn't knock when I "should
have been in school". One old lady worried over my lack of a coat. I
told her I didn't need one, that I'd keep warm doing the shoveling, but
she insisted that I take her granddaughter's old parka, and I did, not
wanting to argue or get more attention over my unseasonable attire. I
shoveled snow until it got dark and people stopped answering their
doors, accumulating just under a hundred dollars in the process.

At the very end of November, I got to Chicago. I didn't know exactly
where in the city Edward had grown up. I walked up and down every
street, half-expecting one block to feel different, like *him*, but it
was all just unfamiliar urban landscape. Eventually I'd covered
everything that could reasonably be called "Chicago". No place felt
unusual.

I shoveled more snow. I didn't visit any home twice. I picked a
jeweler's when I'd saved up enough money. They replaced the chain, and
were able to slightly improve the bracelet. The ring wasn't as good as
new when they finished with it, but at least it was wearable. I had both
of my rings back, the rings he'd given me. My hand felt better.

I walked to Florida. As I went south, I had to be more careful about
when I was in public -- there was more sun -- but I got there eventually.
I was in Jacksonville by Christmas.

I went to my mother's address, in the middle of the night, but there was
no car in the driveway and I couldn't hear anyone breathing inside. They
were probably visiting Phil's family for the holiday, or maybe some of
my extended relations. That was good. She should be with family.

Renée had e-mailed me all the information I'd need to get into the
Jacksonville house when she'd moved there. "Just in case," she'd
written. I took the spare key out from under the flowerpot, let myself
in, disarmed the security system, and wandered around in the dark.

Renée had a desktop computer and hadn't brought it along on her
Christmas vacation. I knew the password to her e-mail -- it was
"Isabella!!", always had been, she wasn't security-conscious at all and
didn't care if I could see her messages anyway. Especially now that she
thought I was dead. I logged in and looked at all her correspondence
with Charlie over the last couple months. Apparently Carlisle *had*
eventually gotten in touch with Charlie. That was good; that meant that
Carlisle was okay. The Volturi hadn't killed everyone I'd ever
associated with out of spite. Renée didn't get the real story,
naturally. But she'd been thoroughly convinced that I was dead.
Apparently they'd held a funeral for me in Forks, and Renée and Phil had
gone, but no Cullens had attended. Charlie thought it was disgraceful
that they hadn't shown up. I couldn't blame them, though.

I wondered if they'd had a funeral for Edward.

I shut down the computer, turned the alarm back on, locked the door
behind me, put the key away, and walked north.

* * * * *

I had no other locations I wanted to visit at all. I wandered completely
aimlessly. I hunted when I was thirsty, and just like Edward had said I
would, I got neater over time. I shoveled driveways when I needed money
to replace my clothes, and to save extra cash in case I couldn't think
of any replacement work for warmer months. Mowing lawns would do on
cloudy days, but unlike snow, grass wasn't persistently accompanied by
cloud cover.

I remembered Edward and wondered about Elspeth.

It occurred to me in mid-January that I didn't really know what Elspeth
might be doing. She might not be in Denali anymore. Carlisle was
unharmed by the Volturi, or he wouldn't have been able to contact
Charlie. They could probably move around freely. Maybe they were living
in one of their own houses by now. I'd only seen Norway, Québec, and
Forks, but there were more. I knew where they were. I supposed I'd need
to steer clear of those towns. They could buy a new house, but I was
unlikely to stumble on it.

I walked up the east coast. There was a Cullen house in Maine, but it
was in Farmington, not close to the ocean; I felt safe enough wandering
along the beach. I ate a number of killer whales. Edward had shared the
first orca I'd ever eaten.

I walked into Canada. It was easier to cross the border unnoticed on
foot than in a car, or rather, it was easier to do it without Edward
looking out for me and pulling strings to make the border agents ignore
me. I crossed Québec without getting too near the house there.

I was in Winnipeg when I noticed I was drifting very definitely
northwest. The direction of Alaska.

I was cold all the time. My shield, hugging me day and night without
pause, was not comforting; it was just a reminder that I was alive while
Edward was not. I wanted my warm child. A reminder that he'd left
something behind.

But I couldn't have her. I shouldn't let myself even get close to
Denali, not when it could put her in danger even if she *wasn't* there.
I turned south and took a meandering route towards Dallas.

I got to Dallas in late March. I was starting to be able to think about
things other than my dead husband and lost daughter for more than a few
seconds at a time. I went into libraries and bookstores when I passed
them, flipped through and memorized random books and newspapers and
magazines. I people-watched. I window-shopped, and gingerly doled out
the cash I'd saved from shoveling snow -- I acquired a nice, durable
backpack and slowly filled it with spare clothes, and a canteen to fill
with water. I agreed to take photos for strangers. I visited landmarks
and eavesdropped on conversations and wished Edward was with me.

I allowed myself four hours per day of dwelling on him and our child,
and other than that, I just traveled and tried to be alive. Like Edward
would have wanted.

I was passing through Tennessee when I found Jasper.

Things Left Behind
==================

I was wandering through the vicinity of Nashville, taking an uninhabited
route to avoid being seen in the sun. I was starting to get a little
thirsty, and my necklace and rings were on my locket chain, where they
were less likely to be damaged by the one-sided fight between me and a
coyote if I happened across one. When I went over a shallow rise, I saw
him, clearly a vampire, from a few hundred feet away.

It took me longer than it should have to recognize him. He was alone,
for one thing; no Alice. His outfit was nothing like the style that had
been typical of Jasper before. When he was facing away from me, the hair
was enough to make him look Jasperlike in spite of that -- it was a
little shaggier than I'd last seen, but the right color and type. But
when he turned around, having heard my approach, his eyes were red.

Figuring I'd been mistaken, and this vampire merely resembled Jasper, I
stepped forward. I would have needed to run from Jasper before being
recognized, lest he get in touch with the family and let them know I was
alive. A stranger, on the other hand, I could interact with in relative
safety. I hadn't encountered another nomad in all my wandering, but
imagined it was customary for me to find out what this vampire's
territory was so I could keep out of it or arrange to peaceably pass
through.

By the time I was close enough to see the web of scars on his face, and
understand that it wasn't just some doppelganger, it was too late: he'd
had the chance to see through my new hairdo.

"Bella," I heard him growl.

"No," I lied, and then I turned to run. I had a head start and I
retraced the steps I'd taken, so I wouldn't be caught off guard by
strange terrain. It took him almost twenty minutes to catch me. But
catch me he did.

He took my arm off, easily, still the consummate handler of newborns.
Holding it hostage, he sprang back. "Bella," he said again, keeping out
of my reach as I lunged for my limb and hissed at the pain.

"Give it back." I looked him in the eye -- what had he and Alice been
*doing*? What would have possessed them to return to eating humans?

Where was she?

"No," he drawled, voice full of his native Southern accent. "I could use
some news from home and you don't seem so inclined to give it."

"I don't have any. Give me my arm." I looked at the limb, trying to use
vision instead of confused kinesthetic sensation to make it attack him;
it just flailed wildly. I couldn't even tell if I was really controlling
it or if it was just twitching on its own.

"You're looking rather well," he said. His tone was somehow harsh and
languid at the same time. "The cancer patient look suits you."

I launched myself at him, trying to grab my arm away. I actually managed
it, through some fluke or just the power I could still put behind a
leap, and I took off one of his hands off in the process. I ran again
once I was clear, licking the severed edge of my arm so it would seal
properly and attaching it back to my shoulder. I flung Jasper's hand
away, hoping to distract him, and kept running.

From what I could hear, he wasn't even going after his hand. He was just
chasing me. "Bella, dear sister," he called. "It's only me, Alice isn't
here to stop me now." What was *wrong* with him?

Where was Alice?

I asked him that: "Where is she?" I yelled, over my shoulder.

That stopped him in his tracks. "You don't know?" he asked, barely
loudly enough for me to hear over the wind in my ears.

I stopped too, and looked over my shoulder. "No," I said.

"She's dead, Bella," he said, sounding so lost that it was like he
wasn't a powerful, leonine fighter missing a hand and covered in proof
of his ability to take me apart. "Alice is dead."

The news hit me harder than I would have guessed. Alice. My sister, my
friend -- dead. Little, happy Alice, dancing wherever she went -- dead.
Just like Edward.

"*How*?" I asked.

Jasper started to lope towards me. "Volturi," he said, the lonely timbre
receding from his voice as he returned to whatever mania had possessed
him before I'd asked about her. "Had one of Nahuel's sisters with them
to block her vision, and a witch I've never seen before who works like
Jane." He sounded comfortable and casual by the time the sentence was
over, in spite of the fact that there was no pleasant way he could have
learned that the witch was similar to Jane. Something was definitely
wrong with him. Some defense mechanism against dealing with Alice's
death, spiraling out of control to make him unstable.

"And Alice?" I whispered, backing away from him. That was two new,
powerful witches with the Volturi, Addy and whoever Jasper had seen.
Maybe the sister of Nahuel's they'd recruited was the witch one too.
Maybe this embarrassment of riches was why they'd been willing to kill
my Edward, and Alice, who they'd wanted so badly.

The pain flashed back onto his face, but he controlled it again -- or it
disappeared of its own accord. "Alec knocked me over, deprived me of all
the usual senses, but that doesn't cut the empathy," he murmured. "That
works just fine... well, not on you, dear sister... but otherwise just
fine... and I felt... Alice... die." Except for the pauses, he could
have been discussing any neutral subject, commenting on my scarf or
something.

I kept backing up; he kept moving forward. He didn't seem to be paying
any attention to what had to be an awful pain in his wrist, where his
hand should have been. "Why are your eyes red?" I whispered.

"Because I've been eating people, dear sister." He practically *purred*.

But that was obvious, that he'd been eating people, didn't he understand
why I'd ask...? "But why? Alice -"

"Don't say her name!" he roared, suddenly all violence and fury. "You
have no right to say her name. *It's your fault*. They had no excuse
until you stepped out of line, *dear sister*, they had no way to
separate us from the group to make the attack feasible until you forced
us to scatter, *dear sister*, you have *no right* -"

"Okay!" I cried, and he calmed again, all the rage drained out of him
like someone had tipped him over and poured it out.

"To answer your question," he said conversationally, "I was originally
able to stop eating people in the first place because, wouldn't you know
it, they don't really like to be eaten. They tend to have strong
feelings about it... not pleasant ones... Well, when I knew there was
something else to be done, I was all too willing to try to leave that
behind, although of course it was difficult. Dear. Sister. But now I
find meals a pleasant respite."

"You..."

"If I feel *their* pain, you see," he murmured, creeping forward as I
scrambled back, "if I focus on *their* terror, think about *their*
despair... I don't have to remember *hers*. Dear, dear sister."

"I'm sorry," I whispered.

"Oh, don't be sorry," he said. "There's really no point. I can't tell,
you see. And besides... I'm going to kill you."

* * * * *

I would have died immediately if Jasper had been in his right mind and
had both hands. But he was short a weapon, and his onslaught was clumsy
and desperate. His attitude and his stance and his strategy shifted
chaotically as he lunged and struck, and while it made him
unpredictable, it sacrificed all of his follow-through.

It was only April; I had almost two months left of newborn strength.
Jasper seemed stronger than Emmett -- I remembered that drinking human
blood conferred an improvement there -- but I was stronger still, and I
could commit to my attacks.

I could, at least, until Jasper started talking again.

"Did you even love him?" he said, launching a kick to my head that
turned into a mere acrobatic maneuver halfway through its journey when
he changed his mind. I rolled away, kipped up, and then realized what he
was talking about and found myself so stunned by the question that I
couldn't dodge as he landed a solid punch to my sternum with his
attached hand.

I flew through the air; he was waiting when I landed and stomped on my
knee, breaking my leg in half. I screamed and scrabbled for the lost
leg, and Jasper chose to forego continuing to divide me from myself,
instead saying, "Because if you did love him... you'd be like me, now,
wouldn't you?"

"You're -" *I shouldn't be talking to him, I should be focusing on
surviving*. I picked up my leg, spat on it, and fused it back to my
knee, then sprang to my feet and ran again.

"Alice didn't see it... too many wolves," he said, sprinting after me.
"But we heard about it... you know, before they killed her because of
you... Edward is dead, or did you somehow not know? Did you abandon
him?"

"No!" I shrieked.

"But you seem to be doing so well, Bella," Jasper snarled. "Of course, I
can't *tell*, not really, but I'd think, if you loved him, that you'd be
in more or less my boat... or you'd be barely awake, like Marcus... or
you'd be focused on revenge, like Irina... but no, you're fine, you're
in the middle of Tennessee... *hiking*."

"I'm not *fine*!" He caught up to me again, pushed himself into the air
and aimed a foot squarely at the middle of my back. I had enough forward
momentum that it didn't actually injure me, but it threw off my gait and
I went tumbling forward down the slope I'd been following.

Jasper stood at the top of the hill, watching me recover my feet. "I
can't tell," he said, shrugging, "like I said." Then he was after me
again. I spun to connect a fist with his face as he approached. I missed
his head, but caught the shoulder of his good arm. It came off. He
didn't make any effort to retrieve it, just kept advancing; he was on me
again in an instant, compensating for his rebalanced body well enough to
land a kick at my throat.

My neck cracked but didn't sever, and he stopped, *again*, to taunt me
while I gurgled and healed. The knitting wound was slower than the
others -- I'd had to reattach an arm and a leg in the last minute; I
wasn't made entirely of venom. "Now," Jasper said, "I know he loved you.
And you felt something for him... I think... before I lost you. But did
you *love* him? Really? Or are you immune to that too, dear sister?" He
darted towards me to do more damage, when my neck was half healed, but I
pushed at him with both hands and one foot and he went hurtling through
the air. He skidded when he landed, not bothering to get his bearings
again until my neck was glued whole and I was up and running again.

If Jasper ever got the presence of mind to pick up his lost appendages
and seriously attack me without pause, I was dead. I needed to do
something clever. He'd been reacting very strongly to Alice's name; it
might throw him off enough that I could reason with him. "Alice wouldn't
want me dead!" I yelled.

He stopped in his tracks, and I glanced over my shoulder to gauge his
reaction. The lost, forlorn look again. "She loved you," he said. And
then his face twisted with hate. "And you *betrayed* her. *She loved
you*." He gave chase again; I kept running, with enough of a start that
I guessed he'd catch me again in four minutes.

* * * * *

*Damn* my ambition. I hadn't been born accidentally immune to Jasper,
I'd *chosen* it --

*Could* I turn it off? I could feel it, now -- it had responded to my
volition when I'd added the immunity, and when I'd been dying -- maybe --
if I just wanted a little *hole* in it, he'd be able to feel my presence
the way he was used to. He was raving enough that I might be able to
convince him that it was a case of mistaken identity.

I didn't know how to make it *make sense* for Jasper to feel me, but
maybe it didn't need to make sense. Or maybe it didn't need to make a
*specific* kind of sense.

He *had* been able to feel my emotions before, after all... I visualized
my shield getting thinner, letting my emotions seep through. I didn't
actually know what Jasper's range was, but he was catching up anyway; if
it was working, he'd notice when he crossed it. I thought I could feel
the press of my shield getting lighter or changing temperature or
something -- it wasn't *quite* like feeling a normal object, I didn't
know how to map all the sensations onto metaphors (or functions) yet.

"What..." Jasper stopped again. "You're... but you look like... *wait*
-"

He was not only confused about who I was, he was also willing to quit
attacking me for that reason? That was better than I'd hoped. If I could
pass off the entire conversation... I ran through it again in my head. I
hadn't *definitively* given away my identity, he'd said all the names
first... although I'd need one hell of a story to cover my appearance
*and* gold eyes *and* a few of the things I'd said. If he really wasn't
sure, though, I might be able to get out with no complete story at all,
and leave him to fill in the blanks with the next most believable thing.

"*Wait*," Jasper said desperately. "I'm sorry, you're not her -- you only
look like -- she's dead, you look like someone I used to know, but she's
dead too, I've been seeing things, I'm sorry. Peter and Charlotte will --
they've been helping -"

He *had* lost his conviction that I was myself. Being rumored deceased
was helpful. "What are you even talking about?" I yelled. "Jesus! I was
just going to ask if I could go through your territory! And then you
called me 'Bella' and you took my damn *arm* off! The hell is your
problem? And you've been eating *people*? Is that seriously normal? I
mean, yeah, they smell awesome, but I thought my creator was pulling my
leg that vampires actually went around killing them." Had to cover the
confusion about the red eyes. The red in his eyes was at least a
different *sort* than newborn red, although it was still a foolish
mistake I was pretending to have made. "But, you know, not pulling my
leg completely *off* like *you*. Thanks for the tip about us not really
being immortal, though, I thought that word meant we can't die, I'll be
more careful about talking to strangers now." That should explain why
I'd asked "how" about Alice's death.

"I'm sorry!" he yelled. "You look like someone I knew, but she's dead -"

"Are you going to attack me again if I stop and talk to you?" I
demanded.

"No, I won't, I won't," he said, and I slowed.

"You look a lot like her," he murmured. "A lot. But maybe you don't.
I've been seeing things, things that aren't there... Maybe you don't
really look like her."

"This... Bella person?" I said, stopping a safe distance away. "Your
sister? Man, I don't know about *her*, but I know I don't look one bit
like *you*."

He nodded. "Uh, look -- I'm with a coven -- you can talk to them about the
territory thing -- they're in -"

"No offense, man, but I don't think I want to hang around," I said. Or
leave more reliable records of my face, in Peter and Charlotte's minds.
It was a stroke of bewildering luck that Jasper had been hallucinating
enough to think I was really someone else. It was not going to hold with
his friends. "Just tell me which way is out of here and go get your
hands back on and take a chill pill."

"Did... did you lose someone? It doesn't make sense unless..."

"You're not my freakin' therapist," I said. "It's not your business that
my boyfriend is -- not your business." *Act, act, act, live, live, live
-*

"I'm sorry. Uh -- go -- that way -- Nashville's the only major city my
coven claims, just stay out of the area and you'll never see me again --
I'm sorry -"

"Toodles," I said, in the most uncharacteristic farewell I could think
of, and I bolted.

I got out of the Nashville area without meeting Peter or Charlotte, and
continued north once I had safely detoured. I thanked my lucky stars
that my identifying jewelry had been tucked into my shirt, and I didn't
dare take it out again until I'd crossed the state line.

* * * * *

Jasper's accusations had shaken me, and when I was out of his coven's
range and had coaxed my shield back to its normal strength, I tried to
consider them. Of course if Jasper couldn't sense an emotion from me,
that didn't necessarily mean it wasn't there... but did he have a point,
however poorly derived? *Could* I be immune to the full force of the
mate bond? It was the *sort* of thing I found myself impervious to. I
felt like I'd been more powerfully connected to Edward than I'd imagined
possible, but I didn't have a true basis for comparison. Edward would
have, if he could read my mind, but he couldn't.

And... I *was* holding up better than Jasper. He was *hallucinating*,
he'd lapsed his vegetarianism, his mood and demeanor swung wildly all
over the map from moment to moment. I *was* functioning better than
Marcus. He was practically a zombie, after centuries without Didyme. And
I was less obsessed with revenge than Irina. While I did want the
Volturi dead, I'd already wanted that before they'd killed Edward.

In short, I was *coping*. I thought about Edward every single day, and
hadn't managed to scale back my allotted four hours daily of dwelling on
him and Elspeth, but I was having a life without him.

But the answer that Jasper had thought of -- that I just didn't *really*
love Edward, that I was somehow protected from that too -- didn't feel
right. I'd had to drag myself around by telling myself he'd have wanted
me to live; I'd acquired more momentum over the months since, but the
basic motivation was still the same, if I looked at it.

Maybe there was some other explanation for why I was -- effectively --
managing. Irina's behavior was the least bizarre of the three examples --
and she, unlike Jasper or Marcus, wasn't a witch. Jasper had apparently
*felt* Alice die. I allowed myself a shudder at how awful that must have
been. Marcus saw relationships -- had he watched his wink out? Would that
be a more affecting experience than mine, where I'd only had to *hear*
myself widowed?

And there was Elspeth.

For all that I thought it was idiotic for anyone to count having
children as a kind of immortality on a par with the *regular* kind of
immortality...

It wasn't *nothing*. Elspeth was alive, might well live forever if she
hadn't inherited my hubris, and she was Edward's daughter. Half him.
Even if I couldn't see her, at least not until every threat were somehow
extinguished in spite of the fact that the Volturi had at least two new
witches and two packs of werewolves... she existed.

I was cold. But I knew *why* I was cold, I knew *what* I was missing,
and that warmth hadn't gone out of the world, she was only far away.

Elspeth deserved to *have* a mother, a mother who wasn't a gibbering
mess or an apathetic lump of misery, even if she couldn't be raised by
that mother. Even if she had to think I was dead for the rest of her
eternity.

I kept walking.

I was passing through Michigan when I found her.

* * * * *

I heard her voice first. I knew it was her before I even processed the
word she'd spoken. There was no mistaking it, even though I'd heard only
the syllables she'd deigned to utter when she was days old.

I froze in my tracks. Michigan? There were no family houses I knew about
in Michigan. They'd bought a new one, then. Moving around more to cover
for Elspeth's growth. How big would she be now? *I should run, I should
jump into Lake Huron and swim to Ontario, I can't be here, they can't
know -*

But what if she said something else? What if she spoke again, and I
missed it?

The word she'd said was "puppy". That was... odd. Vampires, at least
full ones, couldn't be around animals without the animals going out of
their minds trying to get away; that was fine when we were going to eat
the creatures anyway, but it would be a suspicious pattern of behavior
to inspire in pets. Why would she be around a puppy?

Was my daughter *unsupervised?* Were they leaving her by herself, that
she'd found a dog that wasn't barking its head off about the presence of
vampires?

I listened more carefully. There were at least two people with her --
heartbeats, at human speed. I'd entrusted my daughter to my in-laws and
they were leaving her with a *babysitter*? Why were they not with her,
in one combination or another, every minute of the day? What were they
doing that was so important that they'd hand off my baby to someone
else? One of the humans was an adult -- a woman, it sounded like -- the
other a child.

Elspeth said something again: "Can I walk the puppy in the forest?" It
wasn't really a forest, just a cluster of trees in a park, barely thick
enough to obscure vision. If I ran six steps forward to its edge I might
be able to glimpse her. I barely, *barely* stayed put.

"All right, Elsie," said the woman, and my daughter laughed with glee,
and my heart would have stopped if it had been running. More footsteps,
a dog's and a little girl's...

She was coming closer. I should run. If she saw me, if she smelled me,
if she had any inkling that I was here, she could tell anyone about it,
could tell my *neglectful* erstwhile siblings and parents-in-law about
how she'd run into me. After she got home from her day with the
*babysitter*.

But my body was obedient to what I really wanted, and I *wanted* to see
my child again. She walked closer still.

Then the footsteps stopped. I heard her sniffing the air. The dog was
sniffing, too, and started to whine.

"Mama?" said Elspeth.

Every thought of running away evaporated.

I could not, *could not* leave. Not now. Not anymore.

"Mama?" said Elspeth again, and she was getting closer. She was having
to fight the dog to do it; I could tell by listening that she was
stronger than it was, but it was very determined not to approach nearer.
"Silly puppy," she said, and I thought I heard her hook the leash over a
branch to make the animal stay while she investigated.

She pushed branches aside, and I couldn't breathe, and I couldn't move,
and then she came into view.

"Mama!" she exclaimed. She looked like a tall five-year-old, maybe a
skinny six-year-old. Her hair -- *that* hair, exactly the shade, bronzed
and brilliant -- fell in waves to her knees. Her eyes were still that
same brown that her father had loved so much. Someone had put her in a
spring green outfit with daisies on it. She was the most beautiful thing
in the universe.

I didn't think the human would have been able to hear her speaking to
me. She rushed forward, jumped into my arms as they folded around her
automatically, and planted her hand on my face.

Memories flooded past. Everything. Every instant of her childhood stolen
from me, I could have it all back. I'd never be able to put her down,
never be able to tell her to keep me a secret and send her back to the
babysitter and the other child with the dog. I was going to have to
steal her away; there was nothing else I was strong enough to do.

"Elspeth," I whispered, interrupting her. There were too many lost
minutes for me to make them all up standing in a park some insufficient
handful of miles away from her ostensible caretakers.

"What, Mama?" she replied, leaving her hot hand on my face but halting
the flow of shared memory.

"Can you show me what happened right before you came to the park,
please?"

She beamed at me and did exactly that.

The woman and her little son were the Cullens' next door neighbors at
their current residence. They had a dachshund, which Elspeth found
fascinating, but which the regular vampires had to pretend to be
allergic to. The neighbor lady had offered to bring Elspeth along on the
dog's walk, and Elspeth had begged to go, and they'd seen no harm in it:
she was smart enough to keep her extraordinary qualities to herself, and
to stay quiet about the oddities of her relatives.

The human was starting to wonder at how long Elspeth had "walked the
puppy in the forest". "Elsie?" she called. "It's almost time for our
picnic!"

"Mama, come to the picnic?" asked Elspeth eagerly.

"Elspeth, I can't. I need to take you away from here." I was hugging her
close to me, and she was snuggling up, and she was so warm, *so warm* --

"Away to the place you went?" Was that seriously how they'd explained my
supposed death to her? That I'd "gone away"?

"Yes," I said, saving the complex explanation for later. "Are you ready
to go?"

"The puppy is stuck."

"The neighbor will find the puppy and get it unstuck." Finally, my feet
at last were willing to move, now that she was in my arms. The human was
meandering towards the cluster of trees. If I bolted, now, and got into
the water as soon as I could to disrupt my trail, and it took the human
even a couple of minutes to give up looking and contact one of the
Cullens, then I had a shot at evading detection. Unless... "Elspeth, did
you ever meet a vampire man named Demetri?"

She shook her head, and showed me every male vampire she'd ever met,
including Edward, but remembering him didn't hurt as much as it would
have without her right there. Edward, Carlisle, Emmett, Jasper, Ilario,
Eleazar, David, that was all -- apparently if a contingent of Volturi had
visited the family they'd been all women. Demetri hadn't met her. We
couldn't be tracked.

I clutched at Elspeth and I ran.

* * * * *

I needed to cut off our trail. But Elspeth needed to breathe, which made
sustained, discreet underwater travel challenging. No one who would be
looking for me was a tracker. Without any witches to help them, the
family was limited to scent and traditional detective work to follow me.

After even a few minutes for the trail to cool, scent alone wouldn't be
enough to identify *me* specifically, although they'd know *a* vampire
was involved. The distinguishing features of a person's scent evaporated
much quickly, so they'd only be able to tell my species, not recognize
my person. I could confuse my trail to the point of untrackability in a
sufficiently crowded area. But the crowds could be questioned later, and
might remember us. Water would really be best if we could manage it. My
backpack was fortunately waterproof; I'd considered that an important
feature when I'd bought it, considering my penchant for aquatic food.

"Elspeth, sweetie, do you happen to know how long you can hold your
breath?" I asked.

"A whole minute!" she bragged, sending me the relevant memory.

I didn't pull any oxygen out of the air I inhaled. If we both held our
breaths, and I carried her in one arm and dove underwater, we could stay
underwater for two minutes at a time if I gave her my air. That wasn't
enough time to get out of visual range from a speedboat if someone on it
spotted us and knew which direction to go, but it *was* enough time to
get far enough away to confuse anyone who thought we were human. I could
pop up in unpredictable locations and be unfollowable. All they'd be
able to tell, if they were questioned later, would be that we'd been in
the lake.

I'd avoid spending too long in the water -- I just needed to break my
trail, and then there would be thousands of miles of coastline on which
I *could* have emerged. By the time they found the specific beach we'd
come out on the scent would be long gone.

I clung to uninhabited areas so I could run instead of walking until I
got to the edge of the water. "We're going to swim across this lake," I
told Elspeth, after confirming that there was no one along the stretch
of coast I'd found. I explained how we were going to stay underwater,
made sure she knew to poke me if she needed air early, and dove in.

I managed to stay out of the paths of boats for the entire trip across
the lake. The swim took four hours, but Elspeth was very patient about
it, and looked fascinated by the fish we passed. We climbed out on a
beach in Ontario, and it was already after dark. "I'm hungry, Mama,"
Elspeth informed me.

"Okay, Elspeth, I'll get you something to eat," I promised. "I need to
figure out where we are first."

"I never got to hunt with you before, I'm excited," she announced.

"You've been hunting?" I asked, blinking.

She showed me. They'd been feeding her animal blood. Or rather, taking
her along on hunting trips and letting her get it for herself, which
she'd become capable of months previously. I *was* annoyed that my
dietary regimen had been thrown out the window once I was out of the
picture, but on the other hand, wild animals were free and human food
wasn't. I didn't have access to deep pockets full of ancient fortune
anymore. It was probably better, all things considered, if she hunted
for food.

I ran along a highway, slowing to a walk whenever I heard a car coming,
until I arrived in a town. I found a convenience store that was open,
read an atlas with one hand to avoid having to put Elspeth down, and
identified an area that was unlikely to be inhabited where she could
hunt.

"You have to put me down so I can chase stuff," she pointed out when
we'd arrived.

I didn't want to let her go. But she did need to eat, and if she was
accustomed to bringing down her own food... I set her on her feet. She
ran lightly ahead of me, and I jogged behind, just keeping her in sight.

Elspeth drained two raccoons and a small deer, then announced she was
done. She had good table manners, which was a relief, because replacing
her clothes every time she ate would have gotten very expensive and I
only had a few hundred dollars left from snow shoveling.

She didn't protest at all when I scooped her up again. She fell asleep
in my arms as I ran, heading nowhere in particular except away from the
lake.

It occurred to me to feel bad for Carlisle and Esme and Emmett and
Rosalie. They wouldn't know what had happened to Elspeth. I also worried
vaguely about the neighbor who'd taken her to the park being suspected
of having something to do with it. But there was no way to let it be
known that she was okay, that the neighbor was innocent, without making
my survival an even more obvious hypothesis than it already was. I had
to stay "dead". If she just vanished without a trace, any nomadic
vampire accustomed to helping him or herself to interesting live curios
could have been the culprit. If she kept in touch with her grandparents
and aunt and uncle, on the other hand, that sharply narrowed the field
of suspects.

Maybe when she was older, there would be some workaround. She could
claim to have escaped a captor or something, once grown, without being
young enough that they'd insist on her coming to live with them again.
Elspeth's adulthood was only a few years away. They could fret over it
for that long. My *parents* had to think that *I* was dead for longer,
possibly forever.

In the meantime, I had my daughter, and I could keep her, and she was
warm in my arms.
